ID	Descr
1	A continuation of PHYS-110 for life science students, treating electricity and magnetism, electric circuits, waves and optics, and elementary topics in atomic and nuclear physics. Includes applications to biological systems. Three hours of lectures and one three-hour laboratory period a week. Lab fee.
2	Open to juniors and seniors who wish to work independently on a topic of special interest, with the approval of an instructor and the department. The topics will be pursued through private discussion, independent reading, an extensive written report, and an oral examination by two members of the department.
3	This course is designed to help students gain confidence and fluency in communicating arguments orally. Introducing students to basic theories and concepts of public speaking, this course explores how verbal and nonverbal communication impacts the rhetorical effectiveness of public speakers. Students will critique, analyze, compose, and perform
4	This course serves as an introduction to the basic principles of Astronomy. The course is taught more technical level than ASTR 010, and is intended for science majors. Topics include the history of Astronomy, the Solar System, stars, galaxies, the structure and evolution of the Universe, and the origin and evolution of life. Emphasis is placed on the quantitative and qualitative description of astronomical objects, the methods of scientific deduction, and the implications of astronomical knowledge. Opportunities for field and laboratory work will be
5	This course will cover selected topics at an intermediate level. Topics to include but not limited to anatomy and physiology, aging, women, children, complimentary and alternative approaches to health and an upper level nutrition course. Course may be repeated twice for credit with different topics.
6	The study of select problems such as equality, minority rights, majoritarianism, and participatory democracy in the light of the theory and practice of the American political system. (May be taken more than once with different content. Consult Fall and Spring Schedules for specific topics.) An additional fee may be required, depending on the topic
7	A survey of the factors and forces that made Modern French
8	This course provides an overview of current information systems and data management concepts from an analytics perspective. Students will be equipped with the skills needed for data querying for analytics, database management and reporting. Issues associated with managing large, unwieldy and poorly structured data sets will be discussed. Topics are expected to change as new issues, technologies emerge.
9	This capstone course gives students the opportunity to assimilate, integrate, and apply the knowledge and skills learned in the MBA core curriculum. Students will complete either a consulting or an applied research project that reflects the application, synthesis and evaluation of the concepts and issues studied throughout the MBA program. This multidisciplinary course emphasizes strategic decision making in an uncertain environment; economic, social, and environmental sustainability; leadership and communication; and the importance of personal and organizational adaptation to change. The course emphasizes the integration of various business perspectives and experiential collaboration. Prerequisite: Permission of Program Director required.
10	It has often been noted that the Western tradition stands upon two great pillars: the Greco-Roman and the JudeoChristian traditions. This course will give the student a broad introduction into the culture and civilization of the Roman people and how they still influence us. Within the course students will study the broad lines of Roman history, the major literary figures and their works, the principal ideas and institutions that informed Roman society, the great achievements in art and architecture, Roman religious practice, and the ways in which the ancient Romans live on into the present day and why
11	This course builds on the knowledge base contained in previous courses taken by acturial students. The goal is to reinforce understanding of the fundamental concepts of financial mathematics, and how those concepts are applied in calculating present and accumulated values for various streams of cash flows as a basis for future use. Students will review basic financial instruments and expand their knowledge base to more modern financial analysis using yield curves, spot rates and immunization. Finally students will be introduced to the concept of risk management and understand how principles such as derivatives, forwards, futures, short and long positions, call and put options, spreads, collars, hedging, arbitrage, and swaps affect a
12	A study of the interrelations of organisms with each other and the environment. The lectures are equally divided between ecosystem ecology (energy and material flux, modeling), population ecology (population dynamics, competition, predation) and community ecology (structure, diversity, and succession). The lab will emphasize methodology with weekly field trips to various local
13	A study of the epic narratives of Greece and Rome, including among others, Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, Apollonius' Argonautica, Vergil's Aeneid, and Ovid's Metamorphoses. A variety of interpretive approaches will be used in a close reading of the primary texts. The course will focus on the development and transformation of the epic tradition throughout the course of antiquity, its shifting focus, themes, values, methods, cultural assumptions, and
14	A study of the course of black history in the United States, including migration to English America, slavery, emancipation, segregation, rise of organized protest movements, and the civil rights revolution, as well as a consideration of the influence of blacks upon various phases of American political, social, economic, and intellectual development.
15	A survey of the origins and development of the North American colonies from initial European discovery through the end of the French and Indian War. Particular emphasis will be on the 13 British colonies that would become the United States. Topics will include European and Native American background to settlement, cultural interaction between European colonists and Native Americans, the origins and development of African-American slavery, cultural and religious developments, the European wars for control of North America, and the economic and political maturation of the colonies.
16	This course involves the in-depth study of advanced managerial accounting techniques and theories. Topics will include the following: working capital, capital budgeting, CVP analysis, decision making, cost allocation, master budget, variances, responsibility accounting, quality control, benchmarking, strategy, best practices, ethics, and other current managerial accounting topics.
17	The course introduces mathematical probability to understand variation and variability. Methods of enumeration, conditional probability, independent events, and Bayes' Theorem are developed in a general environment. Among the continuous and discrete probability distributions derived and studied are the Bernoulli distribution and distributions based on it, the uniform, exponential, normal, Gamma and Chi Square distributions. The Central Limit Theorem leads to approximations for discrete distributions. Chebyshev's Inequality prepares the student for Inferential Statistics.
18	An advanced studio course exploring traditional photographic concerns in the digital format. Advanced techniques of camera, Photoshop and lighting equipment will be addressed. Students will be exposed to work of past and contemporary artists from diverse backgrounds. A student must provide a DSLR camera.
19	The emergence of modern England during the reigns of the Tudors, Stuarts and first four Hanoverians, with emphasis on political, social and economic changes.
20	A continuation of RUSS-101 
21	This introductory statistics course will provide an introduction to descriptive and inferential statistics with an emphasis on computation using current statistical software packages. Note: Requires a laptop.
22	Astrophysics is the application of physical principles to astronomical systems. Astrophysicists use their knowledge of physics to explain observations of astronomical phenomena, drawing upon a wide range of subjects in physics, including classical mechanics, quantum and atomic physics, thermodynamics, electromagnetism, chemistry,and nuclear physics, among others. In this two-semester introduction to astrophysics you will learn how to use a variety of physical principles to understand the characteristics and evolution of planets, stars, galaxies, and the Universe as a whole. In this course the thematic focus will be on using stellar physics to understand the constituents (stars, planets, heavy elements) and physical evolution of the cosmos. Among the topics we will explore include planetary and stellar atmospheres, stellar structure and evolution, degenerate stars (white dwarfs and neutron stars), star, galaxy, and planet formation, and the origin of primordial elements synthesized moments after the Big
23	This course is intended to provide opportunities for concentrated study at an advanced level in areas beyond the scope of regular course offerings. Consult Fall and Spring schedules for specific topics. May be taken more than once with different contents. 
24	Original laboratory and literature research under the direction of a faculty member. The course is arranged by mutual consent of student and faculty member. 
25	This course is designed to extend students' knowledge of research methods beyond PSYC-300 and to give students opportunities to apply their knowledge by conducting original research. Advanced topics in research design and statistical analysis, including the use of computer software are featured. An oral presentation and formal written report of the investigation are required. Lab fee.
26	The course is intended to provide opportunities for concentrated study at an advanced level in areas beyond the scope of regular course offerings including topics of current concern and topics specifically identified as meeting specialized interests of students. This course is offered on an irregular basis. It may be taken more than once with different course content. The seminar is an elective open to seniors in accounting. Depending on the topic, specific background might be required, and also it might be cross-listed with other Departments and/or be open to seniors in other majors. Approval of the Instructor is
27	Same as PHYS-220, but without laboratory. Offered to nonPhysics majors only.
28	Field Study in service and advocacy among the poor and marginalized in the local community (i.e. Capital Region). Students will be expected to work in the field for 40 hours for each credit earned. Students will be required to keep a journal/log of their activities, to attend scheduled classroom seminars and to prepare a final report a paper or a presentation on a project. Students may receive a maximum of 6 credit hours in internship courses, college-wide. Students will work with the Coordinator of the Internship in Franciscan Service and Advocacy to select an appropriate site and to determine the suitable form of the final report. Pass/Fail credit will
29	This course is an introduction to the study of gender in schools using a cross-cultural perspective. The course will examine the social and cultural construction of gender, gender roles, and the institutions that influence, and are influenced by, gender. Central to the course is the investigation of how gender and sexuality exist today, how they have changed over time and place, and their relevance to schools in both industrial and developing societies. Specific topics include: the cultural construction of gender and personhood; sexuality and the body; the sexual division of labor; kinship; property and the state; politics and reproduction; and the global economy. We will examine the following school based topics as well: models and outcomes of single sex education, discrimination based on gender, sex, and sexuality, the Similarity hypothesis among others. To this end, the course will critically examine the interconnections between gender, sexuality, power, inequality, and access to education. This course fulfills a requirement for the Minor in Educational Studies, Multicultural Studies Minor, and the Women's Gender, and Sexuality Studies Minor.
30	The main goal of this course is to improve the students' grammatical knowledge in general, and more specifically, of the Spanish language and its usage. This will be accomplished through studying the principles of Spanish grammar, writing compositions, reading cultural articles and literary selections in Spanish from Spain and Latin America, and through oral practice. The course takes into consideration the differences in grammatical and lexical usage in the different countries where Spanish is spoken, thus providing an insight into cultural and linguistic differences. Emphasis is given to improving pronunciation and becoming familiar with linguistic
31	A study of the foundations of Christian belief. Basic themes in Christian thought such as the meaning of human existence, the experience of God, the significance of evil, and the community as focus of God's activity will be explored in terms of the person and work of Jesus.
32	Early American Literature examines the origins and developments of the American literary traditions from the period of European expansion through the establishment of the early American republic. Students may read authors such as Bradford, Jefferson, Knight, Sedgwick, Cooper, Adams, Rowson, and Brown.
33	A study of options, futures, convertibles, warrants and other innovative derivatives and swap-like securities. Various trading and hedging strategies, option valuation models, and general market structures will also be covered in this course. This course requires oral and written pre-
34	An intoduction to the basic techniques of journalistic writing. Among the areas covered are: conducting interviews, researching news stories, examining categories of journalistic writing, journalistic ethics.
35	This course is designed to give a firm background in classical animal embryology, as well as to introduce current questions of developmental biology at cellular, tissue, and organismal levels. Topics include gametogenesis, fertilization, early development and organogenesis. Lab fee.
36	An analytical approach to the economic problems of the developing countries. The course includes a discussion of the theories of economic growth and development, including domestic and international issues. This material is augmented by the use of empirical studies of the developmen-
37	Managing effectively in a constantly changing business environment is an essential requirement for business success. This applies to all businesses, including food retailers. Increasingly, food retailers are being challenged to develop strategic plans that will guide their businesses to success and profitability. The objective of the course will be to familiarize students with the global retail industry at all levels and in all segmentsthen take a deeper focus in the application of these principles to food retailing and marketing. Basics of food distribution, wholesaling and retailing, both on the retail and foodservice sides of the business, will be covered. The course will also cover the critical issues affecting the industry, including the decline of food at home, the growth of foodservice, and the food-away-from-home market, and the impact of consolidation. Category management will be an area of emphasis in this course. Students will focus on retailing and purchasing data to analyze groups of products purchased by a business organization or sold by a retailer, building competency in the art and science of category management.
38	An introductory course in business statistics covering the topics of descriptive statistics, discrete probability distributions, the normal distribution, sampling distributions, estimation, hypothesis testing, statistical quality control, simple linear regression and correlation. A statistical software package is used. Not open to students Bayesian decision making, time series, discriminant analysis and autoregressive modeling.
39	A student may earn 3-8 credits by serving as an intern in a foreign country. Placements are available for students from each School. The nature of the internship will determine which School will allocate credit. Typical opportunities include work in parliaments, law offices, theatres, museums, non-profit organizations, banking, hospitals and businesses. Students will work from 10 to 32 hrs. a week, depending on the program selected. The internship will involve a sizeable research project linked to the work undertaken. The GPA requirement is 2.75.
40	A continuation of ITAL 201. 
41	A systematic presentation of the more complex points of French grammar. An application of these grammatical principles will be demonstrated through extensive written exercises, including translations and original compositions.
42	This course focuses on the latest marketing communication practices, knwn as integrated marketing communications (IMC), featuring an overview of the major media, including broadcast, print, outdoor, point of purchase, direct mail, Internet, telemarketing, public relations, promotion, and more. The emphasis is on how to analyze and create an IMC program by using the latest valuebased marketing concepts and measuring ""return on communications investment."" Through individual analysis and discussion of case studies, students learn how to apply core marketing principles by using the latest IMC methods and communications tools.
43	This course concentrates on one area of sociological research or theory not covered in regular course offerings. May be taken more than once with different content. Consult
44	This course will introduce students to the basic concepts and methods associated with the interdisciplinary study of cognition, focusing on research from philosophy, psychology, and computer science. We will focus on representation and computation, learning and problem solving, and the nature of mind, perception, intention, emotion, and consciousness, as well as attempts to model human cognition. Students should come away from the course with a better understanding of the nature of the mind, human cognition, and
45	An extensive treatise on molecular orbital theory/bonding, symmetry/group theory, spectroscopy, kinetics/reaction mechanisms, and photochhemistry of transition metal coordination compounds. Special topics such as the chemistry of metalloenzymes, organometallic compounds, the chemistry of materials, or industrial catalysis may also be covered as
46	A qualified student may pursue a particular project/topic in the field of Accounting in his/her junior or senior year. The project requires the approval of the faculty member involved and the Department Head. A satisfactory written report and/or examination will determine the final grade. Only one independent project may be undertaken in any academic year. The student must possess adequate preparation in the field that will be studied as determined by the professor. 
47	The course will consider the politics, culture, economics, and society of the United States from the end of World War I, through the 1920s, the Great Depression, and
48	An introduction to the statistical principles and methods most commonly used by biologists. Topics will include probability, inference, hypothesis testing, regression and multiple regression, general linear models, parametric and non-parametric tests, permutation, simulation, and bootstrapping. Laboratories will permit hands-on application of concepts from lecture to real biological data sets, building the programming skills needed to use modern statistical software.
49	This is a study of musics of the world. We will also examine the context in which the music may be heard, such as dance, theatre, or religious ceremonies. We will explore relationships between music and other art forms, such as calligraphy, painting, and architecture. In other words, we will study the people through their musical practices. Reading or writing music is not required for this class.
50	This course examines film as a textual form and attends to the formal and political dynamics of the history of film. By focusing on a director or a theme, students will learn how to analyze film and how to formulate arguments about film informed by cultural studies and film theory. The course will mostly be dovoted to how we understand the textual elements of cinema: narrative, symbolism, characterization, and plot. However, it will also examine how that content is reflected in the technical formal elements of cinema: cinematography, mise en scene, editing, and sound.
51	Time Series data occur when describing trends or when tracking internal organizational practices which may have internal structures such as autocorrelation, seasonal variation, and cyclical trends. Techniques for exploring this type of data include regression, autoregressive modeling, random walks, smoothing and decomposition on time series, and qualitative techniques.
52	A continuation of the work of French Conversation I but with stress upon more complicated structures, more extensive and specialized vocabularies. The aim is to prepare the student for increased ease and ability to carry on day-to-day activities in French.
53	The students listen to a guest speaker each week to become familiar with options in the field of engineering. 
54	The major themes of Earth Science are (1) the geographic location and global distribution of natural earth phenomena, (2) the origin and interpretation of these phenomena within the framework of a hierarchy of interacting physical systems and mechanisms , and (3) the impact of past and present human activities on the natural balance of these systems and mechanisms. Topics include climate and weather; atmospheric, surface, and subsurface water; soils and soil processes; natural vegetation; landforms; and diastrophic,
55	This course provides an overview of current information systems and data management concepts from an analytics perspective. Students will be equipped with the skills needed for data querying for analytics, database management and reporting. Issues associated with managing large, unwieldy and poorly structured data sets will be discussed. Topics are expected to change as new issues, technologies emerge.
56	A special topic will be selected for intensive study and discussion. Consult fall and spring schedules for specific information. May be taken more than once with different content. 
57	This course will be the second in a series to continue to introduce students to the concepts of anatomy and physiology of the human body. This course is a systematic integration of the structure and function of the cells, tissues, organs, and systems of the body. This course is designed for those students preparing for a career in the health professions. Biology majors may not use this course to fulfill requirements for the Biology major or minor.
58	This course is the capstone course for American Studies majors and minors. It is an intensive reading and discussion seminar that covers the development of the field of American Studies, as well as current theory and debates. AMST-450 is typically taken during the second semester of the junior
59	This course examines English language literature and culture from the late eighteenth to early nineteenth centuries, and allows students to explore themes related to this time of revolutionary change and political and social upheaval. Bracketed by the end of the Enlightenment, as well as the French Revolution, and the start of the Victorian Era, the Romantic period witnessed the emergence of new literary approaches that emphasized nature, the individual, and the imagination. Works by authors such as Austen, Baillie, Blake, Byron, Coleridge, Keats, the Shelleys, and Wordsworth may be included.
60	A survey course that studies a variety of primary documents such as historical texts and images to understand the history of Spain and Latin American countries from prehistoric times to the present. It focuses on specific historical moments throughout the Spanish-speaking world, as well as on a diverse range of written and audio-visual material including short stories, essays, visual art, film and music among others. The goal of this course is to promote critical thinking and an appreciation of cultural practices and perspectives of Latin America and Spain through exposure to the language, literatures, and cultures of Spanish speaking countries.
61	A Spanish major may work independently on a topic of special interest. The student consults with the professor with whom he/she decides on a study that will permit a definite accomplishment by the end of the semester. This study must be approved by the Department Head and the Dean of Liberal Arts. In a term paper or essay he/she is expected to demonstrate familiarity with the tools basic to his/her study, and an awareness of the methods appropriate to pursuing his/ her interest.
62	This course deals with topics and themes which cross normal disciplinary boundaries. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. The course may be taken more than once with different content. Prerequisites will be set by the faculty teaching a specific course under this rubric. 
63	This course provides field experience in community service
64	The study of formal organizations in a comparative framework. the course will examine the social causes of the development of formal organizations, analyze the internal structure of some types of formal organizations such as corporations, government agencies, hospitals, and universities, and look at the impact of that structure on the achievement of individual, organizational, and societal goals.
65	This course delves into the interdisciplinary field of Chemical Ecology through lectures and a week-long trip to Florida during Spring Break. Chemical Ecology is the study of how organisms interact through chemical means. We will explore topics including pheromones, hormones, chemical defenses, sequestration of chemicals, and biosynthetic origins of molecules. Prior to the trip to Florida, you will be provided with the fundamental knowledge base upon which you can build through experiential learning. The trip to Florida will include a 5 day/5 night stay at an independent biological research station (The Archbold Biological Station). Once in Florida, we will explore the world of chemical ecology through the primary literature talks by the professor, guest lectures, and hands-on experience. There is a field trip fee.
66	Applications of Fourier series and expansions to the solution of the classical partial differential equations of mathematical physics and an introduction to complex
67	A general survey of the history and cultures of the island countries of Southeast Asia: Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines, and Singapore.
68	An introductory course discussing (multivariable) calculus, basic probability,a nd decision theory with a focus on business applications. Topics include several variable function theory, partial differentiation, optimization problems and LaGrange multipliers, Taylor polynomials,infinite series. Basic probability and its application to payoffs and losses, utility, decision trees and sensitivity analysis, Bayesian analysis, inference and decision making.
69	The Foundations sequence is a two-semester, writingintensive course taken sequentially by first year students. It is designed to provide a foundation for the academic and and intellectual life. Faculty and students meet in small, interactive classes to explore classical and contemporary works together. Themes for the first semester are Nature, Society, and The Person, and for the second semester Secular Worldviews, Religious Worldviews, and The American
70	This course is designed to give the student experience in doing research by working in a professional research project being carried out by the instructor. Depending on the particular project, the student may acquire skills in sampling research design, data collection and measurement, data analysis, and research report writing.
71	The role of the financial manager is examined in context with the legal operating and tax environment of contemporary business firms. Attention is focused on financial analysis and planning, the time value of money, risk-return relationships, cash flow, and asset/liability management as well as investment priorities, capital structure, valuation techniques, and capital budgeting applications. Special concerns dealing with mergers, restructuring, and international finance are also addressed. Requires admission to the MS in Accounting program.
72	The course studies how national, subnational and transnational actors create and actuate norms, principles, treaties and institutions for dealing with global environmental issues. (Same as ENVA315.)
73	The Capstone Prep Seminar will prepare students for the Capstone Thesis POSC 497. Students will produce a research proposal for their intended research project related to the theme of the Capstone Thesis in which they are enrolled in the subsequent semester. The seminar will meet in the last third of the semester. Enrollment may be in the spring of the junior year or the fall of the senior year. Requires completion of the 100 level sequence (POSC 100, 130, 140, 150 and the methods sequence 178 and 182) as well as the Portfolio Review. Cannot be taken concurrently with POSC 497. Permission of
74	This course provides a general introduction to philosophical questions concerning law. Among these questions are: Why does law exist? Can laws be broken morally? Why should anyone obey laws? What kinds of laws are there and how do they differ from rules and regulations? What makes punishing criminals right? These issues will be examined through a variety of writings from great historical figures like Plato Aquinas, Locke, and Mill, and contemporaries like Hart and
75	A lab-based introduction to problems, problem-solving, and the kinds of problems amenable to spreadsheet solutions. Provides a foundation for analyzing business and decision support problems using spreadsheet technology. Typical techniques studies may include absolute and relative addressing, macros, and conditionals. Students will be expected to apply their skills to various business scenarios
76	A survey of German history and culture from the Period of the Migration to the Age of Frederick the Great.
77	A study of the principles and the applications used in operations management. The topics covered include
78	The lectures will cover the structure and function of individual neurons and neuronal circuits in both invertebrate and vertebrate species. Topics will include electrical signalling and action potentials, ion channels, synaptic transmission, neuronal plasticity, and general principles governing sensory and motor processing. The laboratory will provide students with hands on experience using fundamental electrophysiological techniques. Students will also investigate neuronal function using computer simulations of ion channels, neurons and circuits. Lab fee.
79	Students will examine the critical role of strategic communication in achieving an organization's objectives, including during times of crisis. Topics will cover a complete range of current communications tools and how to use them in a strategic way. Emphasis will be placed on skills and techniques for developing an integrated approach towards communication and strategy. Students will learn and practice skills that apply to the changing world, including how to manage and communicate during times of organizational change, communicating in times of crisis, managing conflict, communicating to manage and implement large scale projects, and public relations and dealing with the news media, community and
80	The student is introduced to the functions of management in International firms and issues related to adapting managerial practice to ""local"" environments. The course focuses upon the globalization of markets, technologies and business practices and how organizational leaders and managers deal with these changing forces. Topics include managerial planning, communication, leadership, motivation, human resource management and organizational behavior in an international context.
81	Epistemology is the study of knowledge, justification, and rational belief. Topics may include: skepticism; theories of knowledge and justification; the structure of knowledge and justification; sources of epistemic normativity; the value of knowledge; rationality and epistemic responsibility; testimony, memory, and perception;
82	A survey course of lectures, demonstrations, and laboratories in the principles of chemistry including a discussion of topics of contemporary interest. This course is usually offered with emphasis on a specific topic. When such an offering occurs, the content will be designated by a subtitle. This course is designed to fulfill part of the School of Science Core requirement for School of Liberal Arts and School of Business students, as well as Business and Social Science track Computer Science students. It may be taken more than once with different content. An example of the special topic follows: Chemistry in the News: This course will provide a basic backgroung in chemical principles and processes in the context of their role in environmental, health and consumer issues. Topics covered may include ozone depletion, acid rain, global warming, nuclear power and alternative energy sources, recycling, pharmacology, food additives and polymers. The goal of this course is to enable students as informed consumers to critically evaluate scientific issues which have a crucial
83	An introduction to the accounting principles and practices of government and not-for-profit organizations. The course considers fund accounting principles and the unique financial reporting problems important to entities operating within the non-profit area: state and local government, colleges and universities, hospitals, health and welfare agencies, churches and other organizations. Lab problems
84	Today's leaders must navigate across cultures and geographical boundaries to generate sustainable value for business and society. In this course students will learn how to apply innovative leadership techniques in a complex global system to deliver sustainable economic, social, and environmental transformation. They will learn the skills and mental frameworks essential for adaptive and ethical global leaders. The focus will be on how innovative and sustainable business practices can make a difference inside and outside organizations.
85	This survey examines the people, ideas, and institutions view of foreign relations to include interstate diplomacy and economic, social, and cultural interactions among individuals, institutions, and non-governmental
86	This academically oriented course will be taught in Spanish and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Spanish-speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socioeconomic knowledge acquired in class and abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost varies each semester. This course will fulfill a language requirement, it will also count toward a major or minor in
87	Study of specialized accounting topics and issues such as the conceptual framework of accounting, changing price levels, forecast and projections, fiduciary accounting , interim and segment reporting, disclosures, and the standardsetting process. Emphasis is on current pronouncements and the researching of accounting issues. Lab problems
88	A study of the organization and structure of modern programming language paradigms with an emphasis on semantic issues. Topics include formal language theory, syntax, semantics, calling protocols, and conventional and abstract based on the entity-relationship and relational data models. Topics will include logical and physical database design (including E/R modeling, normalization, memory management, and indexing), transactions/concurrency, query processing/optimization algorithms, and query languages (primarily relational algebra and SQL). Problems such as security and integrity of the data will also be discussed. Additional topics may include recovery, object-relational extensions, semistructured data and languages (e.g. XML/Xquery), application development (e.g. PL/SQL, PHP), or distributed systems. Computer Use Fee
89	A study of differential equations using analytic, numerical and graphical techniques. Emphasis is placed on the formulation of models that result in a differential equation and the interpretation of solutions. Slope fields, graphs of solutions (analytic and numerical), vector fields and solution curves in the phase plane will be used to gain a better understanding of differential equations. Computer based tools will be used to investigate the behavior of solutions both numerically and graphically. Offered Spring Series solutions of second order homogeneous linear differential equations, with an emphasis on the equations of Bessel and Legendre, are developed. Fourier series and more general series of orthogonal functions are introduced, with applications to the study of the heat. Laplace and wave equations of mathematical physics. Prerequisite: MATH-260.
90	This academically oriented course will be taught in English and consists of coursework in English followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected French-speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost varies each semester. This course will not fulfill a language requirement, nor will it count toward a major or minor in French.
91	This course will examine the evolution of electronic commerce from a global strategic marketing perspective. Specific emphasis will be placed on the investigation of a complex general purpose technology framework in the context of the unique characteristics of both business to consumer and business to business markets. The corresponding impacts on the elements of the marketing mix will be examined through an application and analysis of the specific electronic marketing activities which have emerged from the technologies of digitization, networking and i individualization.
92	Provides students with experience using the peace studies approach to peace, conflict resolution and social justice through placement with private and governmental organizations. Students are required to work 8 to 10 hours per week. Evaluation is made by the staff of the participating institution and the Peace Studies Program Director.
93	This course is designed to help the professional understand the key role of model based decision in business settings and identify areas that lend themselves to model based decision-making. Students will learn how to turn business problems into mathematical and spreadsheet models and use those models in order to make better business decisions. The course focuses on optimization models and simulations. Application areas may be drawn from problems in finance, marketing, accounting and operations. Topics will include current and relevant modeling in the areas of optimization and simulation and may include Linear and Integer Programming, Simulation and Optimization, Monte Carlo Simulation.
94	This course is the culminating experience in political science program. It consists of a 3 credit topical seminar and a 1 credit lab. Seminar topics will vary (may be taken more than once with different content). In the course, students will engage deeply with specific topic and produce a capstone project that will include a public presentation. Prerequisites: POSC 100, POSC 130, POSC 140, POSC 150, POSC 178, POSC 182, and Junior standing. Permission of Instructor required.
95	A continuation of FREN-101.
96	Political, social, and economic evolution of the German nation from the Vienna settlement to the present.
97	An advanced level studio course in which students explore chromatic, spatial, and perceptual complexities of painting. Students will inquire into the purpose of painting and analyse the historical and contemporary uses of the media. Students will apply contemporary art theory to create and critique their own portfolio of work. Prerequisite: CREA-200 or permission of the instructor. Studio fee.
98	This course is designed to help the professional understand the key role of model based decision in business settings and identify areas that lend themselves to model based decision-making. Students will learn how to turn business problems into mathematical and spreadsheet models and use those models in order to make better business decisions. The course focuses on optimization models and simulations. Application areas may be drawn from problems in finance, marketing, accounting and operations. Topics will include current and relevant modeling in the areas of optimization and simulation and may include Linear and Programming, Simulation and Optimization, Monte Carlo Simulation, Multi-Period Linear Programming and Discrete Simulation.
99	This course addresses the general principles of financial reporting, underscoring the critical role of the analysis of financial reports in investment decision making. Emphasis is put on (1) the relationship between each financial statement (2) the technologies used to analyze them, and (3) particular distortions bassed on reporting for specific categories of assets and liabilities, alternative financial reporting policies, and differences between a company's reported financial statements and economic reality. All topics covered follow closely the CFA level 1 Body of Knowledge for financial reporting and analysis. The course entails 3 credits. Prereqisite: ACCT 200 (with a Cor better) or instructor's permission. ATTR: BUS
100	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Marketing at an intermediate level. Prerequisite course may be required. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. It may be taken more for credit multiple times for different topics. 
101	An intensive study of Ancient Greek grammar and vocabulary with practice in translating simple Greek. A student must successfully complete GREK-101 in order to register for GREK-102. 
102	A survey of the origins of the United States from early Colonial foundations to the establishment of the national government with emphasis upon the political maturation of the American colonists.
103	A survey of the masterpieces of Latin Literature in English translations from the Republic to the Late Empire, which may include selections from the comedies of Plautus and Terence, the histories of Livy, Sallust, and Tacitus, the commentaries of Julius Caesar, the poetry of Catullus, Horace, Vergil and Ovid, the biographies of Suetonius and Tacitus, the speeches and philosophical works of Cicero, Lucretius' De Rerum Natura, the comic novels of Petronius and Apuleius, and the Confessions of Augustine. (Same as ENGL-055)
104	Field study in subject areas covered by the department of Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Mathematics, or Physics. The primary objective is to develop in the student an awareness of how theoretical concepts are converted into applications of value in today's society through participation in ongoing applied or basic research or development programs in the facilities of business, industry and government. Students will work approximately 6 hours per week for 1 credit, 9 hours per week for 2 credits, or 12 hours per week for 3 credits. The time may be spent on a single project or on a variety of tasks agreed upon by the School of Science Intern Coordinator and the supervisor. Students will be required to keep a log of their activities and to prepare a summary report of their experience at the end of the semester. At the request of the host institution and the discretion of the Intern Coordinator, a student may extend the internship until a total of six credits has been earned. No students may apply more than 6 credits of internship experience in any combination of fields towards their degree (except for international internships). May be taken on a pass/fail grading system only, but does not count against the one elective pass/fail option per semester. Offered during the summer and academic year.
105	The lectures will cover organism structure and function in terms of mechanical principles. The course will focus on biological examples to introduce the basics of fluid and solid mechanics with topics including properties of biological materials, muscle function, and terrestrial, aquatic, and aerial locomotion. The laboratory will provide students with hands on experience using fundamental biomechanical techniques to study both human and other
106	This course explores various aspects of sports writing and reporting. Students ar taught to develop stories for print, radio, television and on-line publications. Students are assigned readings that illustrate strong storytelling techniques, and learn to craft basic hard news stories as well as feature reports and profile pieces. Students learn the fundamentals of shooting and editing video. Students learn to create content under deadline pressure that conforms to legal and ethical standards.
107	Political theory provides conceptual clarification evaluating what is just in the context of power in political life. This course introduces you to the field of political theory by focusing on social justice concepts such as equality, freedom, rights, power, law,diversity, and morality. In this course, we will approach political theory through attention to: 1. the historical location of ideas, 2. the literary or rhetorical nature of our texts, and 3. matters of contemporary relevance for thinking about political experiences today. We will read both classics in the field as well as important contemporary
108	This course will examine the category of literataure usually designated as Science Fiction, SF, or Speculative Fiction. Science Fiction, in all its forms is essentially a literaature of ideas, in which the ""facts"" of current reality are altered in some way to answer the question ""What if?"" The course will consider these questions: How is Science Fiction defined? Where does Science Fiction begin? (With Verne and Wells, with Shelley's Frankenstein, or even earlier?) How is the literary category of Fantasy to be distinguished from Science Fictin? How do we evaluate the aesthetics of Science Fiction? Readings will include novels and short stories by authors such as H.G. Wells, Arthur C. Clarke, Isaac Asimov, Ursula LeGuin, Philip K. Dick, Octavia Butler, Samuel Delaney, William Gibson, and others.
109	This course surveys the canon of art history from the fifteenth to the twentieth centuries a group of artworks that are widely recognized as of enduring importance in human history. Some, like Michelangelo's Sistine Ceiling are outstanding in their own right, others are examples of significant types, e.g. landscape paintings. All are studied in respect to the culture in which they were produced, and upon which they exerted influences. Included will be Leonardo da Vince, Rembrandt, the Impressionists, architecture such as Versailles and the Taj Mahal, as well as the major developments of the modern world.
110	Treasury management focuses on methods and tools used to maintain corporate liquidity, optimize working capital and capital sturcture, and monitor and control corporate exposure to financial and operational risks including cross-border funds movements. The course includes consideration of appropriate ethical behaviors and cororate governance issues. Prerequisites: FINC-301.
111	A survey of the development of world theatre covering material from 17th century theatre through contemporary achievements, focusing on theatre architecture, plays, acting styles, theatrical conventions, methods of production and critical perspectives during significant periods of theatrical activity. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab Fee.
112	A qualified student may pursue a particular topic/project in the field of Quantitative Business Analysis in his/her junior or senior year. The project requires the approval of the faculty member involved, the Department Head and the School of Business Dean. The number of credits to be awarded A satisfactory written report will determine the final grade. Independent Study may be taken twice for credit.
113	This internship provides majors with the opportunity to learn about the social work profession through working in a social service setting. Students provide services to individuals and explore the relationship between the organization, the community and service consumers. Emphasis is placed on understanding the role of diversity as well as the promotion of social and economic justice within the
114	Qualified students are encouraged to undertake an independent study project in their junior or senior year. Such a project requires the approval of the faculty member supervising the project and the department head. The student qualifies for credits by the submission of a satisfactory written report. When appropriate, an examination may be required. Students are limited to no
115	This course surveys the development of Asian American literature within the context of different Asian and Asian American Cultural and historical traditions, and dominant American literary, racial, and political discourses. Students will read a wide array of literary, theoretical, and critical works by Asian American writers. Same as MULT 345 and ENGL 374.
116	Faculty present a special topic for intensive study and discussion. Open to majors and other students with permission of the instructor. Consult fall and spring schedules for specific information. This course may be taken more than once with different content. An additional
117	This course surveys the history of European women from ancient times to the present, with particular attention to how the study of women and gender has changed the way historians analyze the past. The construction of the concept of masculinity and feminity will be explored through careful examination of primary and secondary materials. The latest historiographical approaches to the study of women and gender will be considered as will new resources for
118	A study of the quantitative methods used in Management. The topics covered, both in theory and application, include goal, integer and dynamic programming, inventory control, simulation techniques, transportation and assignment problems, queuing, network models, Markov chains, and Heuristics.
119	This course introduces students to the concepts and skills necessary for developing and enhancing effective interpersonal communication. Particular emphasis is placed on the interview and the techniques used to engage an individual in the helping process. Students actively participate in the learning process through class exercises,
120	An examination of the works of American composers inspired by the theatre, the unique qualities of theatre music and its contribution to American culture. Areas studied include early ballad operas, black minstrelsy, operas, vaudeville, musical comedy, ballet, and dramatic background music.
121	This practicum will involve an internship or experiential learning experience in Multimedia Design. Students will explore research experience, career opportunities, and fieldwork experience related to the digital art & design or another curriculum area of the Mutimedia Design program.
122	Through focusing on the development of the Markowitz Procedure, Capital Asset Pricing Model, Arbitrage Pricing and other theories, this course seeks to familiarize students with the theory underlying the practice of Finance. In addition, this course will also familiarize students with the inherent problems associated with these models as well
123	A continuation of FREN-201 
124	The reform of western Christianity in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries as Europe moved from the medieval to the modern world. Special attention will be paid to significant figures such as Luther, Calvin, and Ignatius Loyola. (Same as HIST-384)
125	This course serves as an introduction to the basic principles of Astronomy. The course is taught at a non-technical level, and is intended both for nonscience majors. Topics include the history of Astronomy, the Solar System, stars, galaxies, the structure and evolution of the Universe, and the origin and evolution of life. Emphasis is placed on the quantitative and qualitative description of astronomical objects, the methods of scientific deduction, and the implications of astronomical knowledge. Opportunities for field and laboratory
126	Lecture and accompanying lab focused on the structure and function of the human body. Emphasis will be on organization of the human body, musculo-skeletal, and nervous systems.
127	The acquisition and development of language is examined as the foundation of literacy. Three populations are studied: native English speakers with intact abilities and with impairments; speakers whose dominant language is not English; and speakers of variants of English. Children and early adolescents are viewed as applying cognitive strategies actively in processing spoken language and in deriving meaning from print. Topics include environmental influences on language and literacy, discourse theory, pragmatics, participation structure, literacy at home and in school, use of writing and of literature to enhance learning, and the impact of technology on literacy. A twenty-hour field experience is required (transportation is the responsibility of each student). For those pursuing Siena's certification sequence, the field experience must be at the secondary level (grades 7-12) in a ""high needs""
128	Whether it be horse racing, bare-knuckle fighting, baseball, or football (to name just a few) sports have played an important role in American life. This course will explore role of sports in American culture as well as cultural effects on American sports from the colonial era to the twentieth century. Particular focus will be on how sports illuminate issues of race, class, ethnicity, and gender in American history. Student assessment will be based on completion of assigned readings, discussion, examinations, reflection essays, and a research paper.
129	This course introduces students to advanced statistical methods beyond what there have learned in an introductory statistics course. Math 375 aims to empower students to analyze complex datasets that include more variables and address a broader range of research questions. Topics include statistical power, sample size estimation, non-parametric tests, comparisons among several samples, post hoc analysis, variable selection in multiple regression, logical regression, log-linear regression, inter-rater agreement, and intra-rater reliability, introduction to survival analysis and ROC curves. In this course, we will use R to perform statistical analysis and R Markdown to produce documents.
130	An exploration of the controversial movement that sought to affirm a uniquely Irish culture through reviving Irish myth, encouraging the use of the Irish language, and founding an Irish national theater. Beginning with the catastrophic Potato Famine in the mid-1800s, the course will examine Irish writers' attempts to carve out an independent cultural niche in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Writers to be considered will include W.B. Yeats, Lady Gregory, J.M. Synge, Sean O'Casey, and James Joyce, and issues of the changing roles and representation of Irish women as well as the imaginative construction of an Irish nation will be
131	A study of the period as affected by the First World War, the Russian Revolution, the rise of Fascism in Italy and Nazism in Germany, the Great Depression, the problems of the democratic states, the breakdown of inter-national cooperation, and World War II.
132	This course is an historical survey of African American literature which introduces students to a broad range of significant writers in the genre of poetry, prose, autobiography, fiction, fiction and drama. Same as ENGL 370.
133	One of the most critical eras in American history, the American Civil War continues to fascinate people. Issues of race, Confederate commemoration, federal-state relations, political and cultural polarization are all themes from the Civil War era that continue to be present in modern America. This course will examine the political, social, and economic causes of disunion; the military conduct of the Civil War; the home front during the war; the effects of Emancipation; and the political,social, and economic policies of Reconstruction. This course is rooted in Franciscan Concern of Heritage, elucidating major human traditions and themes of freedom and slavery, constructions of race, government power, war, and social change. Student assessment will be based on completion of assigned readings, discussion, examinations, reflection essays, and a research paper.
134	This course awards academic credit to eligible students for the laboratory exploration of theatrical process as actors in the production program. The number of credits awarded will be determined in advance by the Program faculty on the basis of workload and the degree of difficulty of the assignment. A satisfactory written report, practicum journal, and participation in the production program will determine the final grade. CREA-450-454 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any one semester. A field trip to a professional pro-
135	A survey of the history of Latin America from 1492 to independence in the 1820s.
136	This course provides an opportunity for seniors with a 3.0 or above to pursue independent study that is interdisciplinary or that does not fit within a single department's guidelines. The permission of a faculty member and the Dean is required. 
137	The political, social, and economic development of Mexico from colonial times to the present.
138	This course considers the evolution of British literature in the early to mid-20th century in the wake of a collapsing Empire and two World Wars. The innovative, experimental modes of expression of Modernism, disillusionment with Victorian values, changing attitudes toward gender and sexuality and the redefinition of British identity will be explored through such writers as Conrad, Lawrence, Woolf,
139	This course, offered in a foreign country, is an intensive study of specific topics associated with international internships. The nature of the student's research will determine which School will award credit. The course will typically involve a high degree of independent research, oral presentations by the students, and a well-documented writing assignment. Besides the specific research coordinated with an internship, the course will emphasize issues in intercultural communication. A student will earn four credits for this course.
140	A study of environmental public policy: the major actors, institutions, and rules of the game that shape decision making. We will also engage in a dialog about the underlying philosophies that drive resource utilization and environmental preservation. We will primarily look at the case of the United States, but some attention will be given to the international dimensions of the subject. (Same as POSC-360.)
141	This course completes the Calculus sequence. The topics covered are vectors in the plane and in a three dimensional space, functions of several variables, partial differentiation, the chain rules, multiple integration including cylindrical and spherical coordinate systems and the theorems of Green and Stokes. Students apply
142	A survey of the social, cultural, and political development of Rome from its foundation to the fall of the empire. (Same as CLSS-306).
143	Political, social, and economic evolution of the German nation from the Vienna settlement to the present.
144	This course introduces the student to environmental policy processes and issues from economic, management, political science and sociological perspectives. It presents various methods for evaluating environmental quality and remedies; it looks at the various actors (federal/state/ local governments, communities, grassroots organizations, etc.) involved in environmental decision-making; and it examines the challenges of implementing environmental policy.
145	Qualified students are invited to pursue a special project in Latin of their own choosing, with the approval of the Department.
146	This course is a study of the most recent examples of contemporary music. We will experience the creative process in these compositions through listening and analysis, and we shall even do a little composing and performing of our own. These compositions often reflect other artistic trends and utilize scientific fields in the creative process, for example minimalism, postmodernism, mathematics, acoustics, etc. Reading or writing music is
147	An advanced management course that addresses the various perspectives on the increased diversity of the population in today's organizations. The couse primarily focuses on issues of race, gender and ethnicity in organizations. However, other factors that contribute to a diverse organizational population such as disability, age discrimination, class and sexual orientation are also analyzed. The course uses a wide variety of techniques to address diversity in organizations, relating these issues to current demographic trends, the global marketplace and geoethnic transformations. This course is open to students with Junior standing or above.
148	A survey of South Africa from pre-colonial times through the arrival of white settlers and the ensuing race conflict which has raged through the centuries, with emphasis on the social, political and economic dimensions, up to the
149	A laboratory course in the study of physical chemistry. The objectives of this course are: (1) To provide the student with practical experience in the techniques of experimental physical chemistry. (2) To deepen the student's understanding of the principles of thermodynamics, kinetics, and spectroscopy through experimentation, (3) To develop more sophisticated and independent chemical laboratory skills in the student. (4) To increase the student's ability to communicate effectvely and professionally both in writing and in speech. Three hours of lecture, one hour of studio laboratory each week.
150	A qualified student may pursue a particular project/topic in the field of Economics in his/her junior or senior year. The project requires the approval of the faculty member involved and the Department Head. A satisfactory written report and/ or examination will determine the final grade. Only one independent project may be undertaken in any academic year.
151	A continuation of RUSS-201.
152	Why should we conserve biological diversity? An informed answer requires a basic understanding of the diversity of living organisms and the processes affecting this diversity. This class explores the classification of living organisms, their intrinsic value, and strategies for their conservation Students will be asked to make connections between unsustainable human activities and species loss through critical discourse and collaborative projects that apply principles of modern conservation biology.
153	An examination of how Jews and Judaism have responded to the crisis of modernity. Topics to be examined include the effects of the breakdown of the European Ghetto; the birth of Reform, Conservative, Reconstructionist, and Neo-orthodox Judaism; the Haskalah movement; Zionism; 20th century Jewish thought; post-Holocaust theology; contemporary trends in Judaism.
154	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Quantitative Business at an introductory level with no prerequisites. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. This course is not intended for students within the School of Business and may not be taken for credit by students enrolled in a major offered by the School of Business. School of Arts and School of Science students may take this course for elective credit only. It may be taken more than once with different content. 
155	A study of specialized topics encompassing the Revolutionary Era from 1754 to 1815 that include: Economics of the Revolution; Education in the Colonies; Blacks in the Revolution; Free and Slave; Local History-Albany, Schenectady, Troy in the Revolution; Weapons and Tactics in the World and Revolution, 1785-1815; Colonial Women; Diplomacy in the Revolutionary Era. The specific topic is announced in the schedule of course offerings. Students may repeat the course for credit provded the selected subject matter has not been taken previously for credit. (Cross-listed as
156	Examines assumptions of major theoretical approaches and implications for empirical research in Political Science including concept formation, survey and research design, and data analysis. Laboratory required one hour per week.
157	A survey of the social, cultural, and political development of Rome from its foundation to the fall of the empire.
158	Modern conservation biology employs an integrative approach to biodiversity protection and management using priciples and experiences from ecology, natural resource management, and the social sciences. Topics include biological diversity, valuation systems, adaptation and extinction, minimum viable populations, management of invasive and endangered species, and the design of nature preserves. Lab and field problem-solving exercises focus on population size, habitat fragmentation, and restoration
159	An examination of a particular topic which deals with the concepts of peace, conflict, nonviolence, and social justice.
160	This course provides students the opportunity to learn the objective process of collecting and analyzing data to aid managerial decision making. Students develop and practice the knowledge and skills necessary to review, apply and conduct organizational research. Major topics include the scientific method, sampling, secondary data gathering, observation and interviews, survey construction and experimental design. Students engage in research projects, conduct and interpret statistical analysis, and communicate their findings. Emphasis will be placed on conducting and using research in an ethical manner.
161	This course explores special topics in biochemistry including a close examination of biochemical reaction mechanisms and enzyme kinetics, and readings from the
162	This course overviews current information systems concepts. Students will be instructed in the design and implementation of AIS in a database environment. Some topics addressed by the course are expected to change from year to year as new issues and technologies emerge. Topics that are covered may be drawn from the AICPA's Top Ten Technologies List. Examples of topics include: Computer Crime, XML (eXtensible Markup Language), XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language), and
163	The study of Late Antiquity will investigate the fundamental period of transition from the classical to medieval world as it was experienced across the Mediterranean. Spanning the crises of the Late Roman Empire to its disintegration, it will encompass diverse areas of inquiry: the establishment of Christianity within the Roman Empire; the barbarian migrations and the ensuing destabilization of the Roman Empire in the west; the emergence of the papacy and the rise of the Frankish king, Charlemagne as a new emperor; the continuity of the Roman Empire in the east through the successors of Augustus who ruled the ""Byzantine"" Empire from Constantinople; the emergence of the Islamic caliphate and the founding of Baghdad. Same a CLSS 340.
164	This course will be offered with emphasis on different topics. The content will be designated by subtitle. Students may take the course more than once with different content. Potential topics include: History of Computing, Computing and Film, Information Presentation, etc.
165	This course is designed as an analysis of political institutions in Western Europe. Topics to be addressed include the impact of the welfare state and dilemmas of governing in post-modern and postindustrial societies, as well as problems of race and ethnicity. Some familiarity with parliamentary systems or other political cultures would be a helpful background for interested students.
166	This course completes the calculus of elementary transcendental functions. It also includes techniques of integration, indeterminate forms, L'Hospital's Rule, improper integrals, and introduction to sequences, infinite series and power series. Students apply concepts to work, volume, arc length, and other physical phenomena. Three hours of lecture and one hour and twenty minutes of laboratory each week. Lab fee. Students must purchase an approved graphing calculator prior to beginning
167	A student taking a major or minor in French may work independently on a topic of special interest. The student consults with the professor with whom he/she decides on a study that will permit a definite accomplishment by the end of the semester. This study must be approved by the department head and the dean. In a term paper or essay he/ she is expected to demonstrate familiarity with the tools basic to his/her study and an awareness of the methods appropriate to pursuing his/her interest.
168	Law as a social institution has an important explanatory power in the study of societies. This course examines the theoretical foundations of the study of law, its socio-historical basis and
169	An introduction to the study of functions of a complex variable. Topics will include complex numbers, sequences, analytic functions, Cauchy-Riemann equations, complex integration, Laurent and Taylor Series, residue theorem, and conformal mapping. Offered in Fall Semester.
170	The course examines representative works from Proust to the present day and provides discussion of each author's ideas of basic modern problems in English. No knowledge of French language is required. May not be used as part of French major or minor.
171	Highly advanced individual study under the direction of a member of the department of a topic chosen by the student and based upon his/her particular interest and background. It will involve private consultation with the advisor, independent research, and the writing of a research paper. A senior History major with exceptional qualifications and a record of distinctive achievement may pursue independent study with the approval of an instructor and the department.
172	A study of differential equations using analytic, numerical and graphical techniques. Emphasis is placed on the formulation of models that result in a differential equation and the interpretation of solutions. Slope fields, graphs of solutions (analytic and numerical, vector fields, and solution curves in the phase plane will be used to gain a better understanding of differential equations. Computer based tools will be used to investigate the behavior of solutions both numerically and graphically. Offered Spring Semester.
173	This course is designed for students who have strong high school preparation in chemistry. Topics include chemical structure and reactivity, thermodynamics, kinetics, and equilibrium. Three hours of lecture, one hour of studio laboratory, and three hours of practical laboratory each week. Students enrolled in this course will choose from the same laboratory sections as those in CHEM 110. Not open to students who have taken CHEM 110 or CHEM 120.
174	This course uses a political economy approach to examine economics and economic policymaking from the perspectives of gender, race and class. Through this course, we challenge dominant narratives of race, class and gender in economic theory and models of economic behavior. We examine how assumptions pertaining to these constructed categories permeate economic theorizing (about the household, the labor market, work, welfare etc.) and policy-making, systematically reproducing unequal opportunities and outcomes.
175	Field work experience to explore career opportunities. Students work 120 hours per semester. Students will be graded on a standard grading scale. Students will be required to maintain a field experience journal and a final report or project.
176	A study of the political, social, economic, and intellectual currents of modern America and its developing role in world affairs.
177	This course is a survey of the Jewish historic experience, examining the forces that have shaped the ongoing development of Judaism, its beliefs and practices. Major issues and trends in modern Jewish life will be explored, including the Holocaust and Zionism. This course is sponsored in part by the Jewish Chautauqua Society.
178	This course is designed for students pursuing the English/Education certificate. The main goal of the course is to familiarize students with the genre of adolescent literature. Students are required to write critical response papers and to lead class discussion. A final project involving the creation of a literature unit appropriate for a middle school classroom, is required.
179	A general survey of the American labor force reveals the changing nature of work, changing labor force participation rates by age and sex, and the growing importance of minority representation. Traditional labor market models of wage determination are supplemented by considerations of institutional constraints, employee benefits, and forms of wage discrimination. Special topics include: types of unemployment, federal manpower programs, and the history of American
180	An intermediate level studio course designed to expand the student's knowledge of drawing techniques and media and to increase the range of creative application. Students will study still life, landscape, and figure directly and pursue a series of exercises designed to develop their own personal expression. Studio fee.
181	The course will discuss what constitutes a fraud, how frauds can be committed, how frauds can be uncovered, and some actions accountants and business executives can take to minimize frauds occurring in their organizations. This course meets the Siena College definition of Franciscan Concern: Diversity by considering matters of race, gender and culture, within the context of the accounting firm being a microcosm of society. This upper level accounting elective is designed as a seminar. Students must have senior status.
182	In this course, students develop critical reading, writing and speaking skills. Students accomplish this by reading short stories, poetry, plays and novels, working on vocabulary, analyzing the readings, writing essays and speaking in Spanish in class. Literary texts from the 14th to the 21st century are used as a tool for students to understand sociopolitical, historical, and cultural
183	This course introduces the student to environmental policy processes and issues from economic, management, political science and sociological perspectives. It presents various methods for evaluating environmental quality and remedies; it looks at the various actors (federal/state/ local governments, communities, grassroots organizaions, etc.) involved in environmental decision-making; and it examines the challenges of implementing environmental
184	This course awards academic credit to eligible students for the laboratory exploration of theatrical process as technicians in the production program. The number of credits awarded will be determined in advance by the Program faculty on the basis of workload and the degree of difficulty of the assignment. A satisfactory written report, practicum journal, and participation in the production program will determine the final grade. CREA-450-454 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any one semester. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab Fee
185	Students will apply basic physics principles to analysis of systems experiencing some combination of forces and torques, with an eye toward engineering applications. Topics covered are statics of particles and rigid bodies, equilibrium, center of gravity, friction, analysis of structures, and moments of inertia.
186	This course will include a travel component that allows students to examine a health care topic from an international perspective. The particular content and area of study will be indicated by the class subtitle. The course will require classwork in advance of the travel experience. Other prerequisite courses may be required. This course may repeated for credit with a different topic area. Travel cost will be paid by student. Cost varies each semester. Permission of Instructor required.
187	The purpose of this course is to introduce the student to the chemical aspects of forensic science as it applies to criminal investigation and laboratory preparation. This course looks at select pieces of instrumentiation and chemistry associated with crimes. We will look at how the instrumentation is used, what type of evidence it can process, how to read the results and the properties of the chemical evidence. This course will also study the general principles and fundamentals of forensic toxicology, poisons, action, toxicity, postmortem characteristics, samples required for toxicological analysis and methods of collection, methods of preservation and analysis. Chemical toxicological and pathological characteristics of commonly abused drugs, including the following: ethanol, barbiturates, narcotics, stimulants, and hallucinogens. Details of SAInT Center instrumentation and the methods employed for analysis, such as color test, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, GC-MS, infrared spectroscopy, uv-vis spectrometry, will be a major part of the laboratory
188	A survey of contemporary writings in the biological sciences designed to acquaint students with recent advances in the field and with the progression of biological thought. Students enrolled in this course will choose from the same laboratory sections as those in BIOL-120. Lab Fee.
189	This course is an historical survey of African American literature which introduces students to a broad range of significant writers in the genre of poetry, prose, autobiography, fiction, fiction and drama.
190	The course will give hands-on experience using Business Intelligence tools (Tableau and Excel). Successful businesses typically collect, analyze and utilize information more effectively than their competitors. Emerging technology can capture large volumes of data which can overpower current evaluative methods, interfering with a bussness' ability to analyze and utilize new information. These challenges are addressed in this course so that learners can become more intelligent information users in their chosen field. Prerequisites: QBUS-320.
191	An introductory exploration of both the theory and practice of directing for the stage. Students will direct contentless scenes, short plays and/or contextual scenes from full length works, collaborating with students in CREA-219 (Acting I) as an integral part of the course. This course is designed for students with an intermediate to advanced level of theatre experience and training. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab fee.
192	From the earliest rock art of prehistory to the great stone cathedrals of the Middle Ages, this course examines the art of the world from the point of view of the cultures that produced them. Traveling through ancient spaces as well as time, students survey monuments like Stonehenge, the pyramids of Egypt, the complexes of Meso-America, the grave goods of ancient China, the Bronzes of ancient Africa, the temples, the churches and the shrines of the many religions that laid the foundations of our own world.
193	This course provides a beginning knowledge and a methodology for analysis of social welfare and social work issues and problems. Social policies, programs and services designed to address these issues and problems are also presented. The course introduces the profession of social work and its theoretical approaches including Holistic, Ecological, Systems and Strengths/Capacities responsibilities to Earth. ATTR: ARTS, CFN
194	The principles and objectives of cost accounting, production control, and inventory control as they relate to the management decision making and control processes within the
195	A beginning studio course in the problems of composition, value structure, color mixing, and various painting techniques with oils or other media. Students use drawing and painting in the study of nature and still life. Studio fee.
196	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Quantitative Business at an intermediate level. Prerequisite course may be required. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. It may be taken more for credit multiple
197	This class critically examines community organizing and development and the role of institutions of higher education in this process. It examines responses to following three questions: What are the elements of effective community organizing? What is the role of the university in creating/supporting community change? and finally, how does one go about creating and maintaining effective university-community partnerships? Students will leave this class ready to engage in a disciplinary-based community change project with a Siena faculty member and a Siena College community partner.
198	Juvenile Justice traces the development of Juvenile Justice in America from the early 20th century to the present. Students will explore the ""pendulum swings"" of laws and policies that range from treating juveniles as victims of ill-equipped parenting to irredeemable ""super predators"" and worthy of life without parole. Special attention will be placed on:girls in the juvenile justice system, diversion programs for youth and the reentry experience for youth released from incarceration.
199	This course awards academic credit to eligible students to create advanced media content for a semester-long project designed to further the student's application of writing and production skills. The number of credits awarded will be determined in advance by Director of the Broadcast & Society Minor on the basis of workload and the degree of difficulty of the assignment. Creation of substantial media work, in addition to a satisfactory written report and a practicum journal will determine the final grade. JOUR-470 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any one semester. Permission of Instructor required. Same as CREA 470.
200	The course explores security and control issues from an accounting and auditing perspective related to technology as it impacts business applications. Topics may include security and control related to e-commerce, internet, and computer auditing. Students will be exposed to a variety of business applications through case studies and projects. Students need an understanding of basic accounting and financial concepts, as well as an understanding of the design and application of Information Systems and Data
201	A specially designed intensive language course focusing on a particular linguistic or cultural topic. The course will meet by arrangement during the semester for orientation meetings and introductory lectures on the topic to be studied, followed by a study program in a Spanish speaking country. Recommended for students beyond the intermediate level. May be taken more than once with different topics. Enrollment of no fewer than 8 and no more than 25 students required.
202	An examination of the nature of deviance, the dominant theories for explaining deviant behavior, and the implications of these theories for its control. Several examples of deviance will be discussed, with emphasis on the social factors related to their occurence and the utility of
203	Qualified students are invited to pursue a special project in Greek of their own choosing, with the approval of the Department Head.
204	A study of selected works of Hispanic drama both classical and modern.
205	A study of art in the United States from the seventeenth to the twentieth century considering both the European influence and American styles. Small group field trips to local/regional historic houses and museums are required.
206	A survey course designed to help students recognize the interrelationship between human behavior and firm performance in the valuation of stocks and bonds. The central theme of this course will be how and why forces in the economy (both behavioral and economic) lead to the establishment of stock prices. Through projects and simulations, students will explore the interrelationships between financial institutions, financial policies and stock market valuations.
207	This Practicum will involve an internship or experiential learning experience in Marketing with an emphasis on the concentration sought by the student. Students will explore research experience, career opportunities, and fieldwork experience related to Marketing with a specialized emphasis on the concentration chosen.
208	This course provides an opportunity for seniors with a 3.0 or above to pursue independent study that is interdisciplinary or that does not fit within a single department's guidelines. The permission of a faculty member and the Dean is required.
209	This course provides an opportunity to explore selected areas of study not in the regular sports communication offerings. Topics vary depending on student and faculty interest. May be taken more than once with different content. A field trip may be required. Permission of instructor required.
210	An intergration of the Peace Studies program which involves examining and carrying out scholarly research on some particular aspects of peace, war, conflict resolution, violence, social justice of injustice, intercultural understanding, or a just world order.
211	In this class, we will study of the basic principles of the organometallic chemistry of the d-block elements. Topics will include a survey of coordination chemistry, the properties and reactions of organometallic complexes, and applications of organotransition metal compounds in catalysis, organic synthesis, bioinorganic chemistry and medicinal chemistry. In addition to lectures, we will
212	This course is intended to provide opportunities for concentrated study at an advanced level in areas beyond the scope of regular course offerings including topics of current concern and topics specifically identified as meeting specialized interests of students. This course is offered on an irregular basis. It may be taken more than once with different course content. The seminar is an elective open to seniors in business. Depending on the topic, it might also be cross-listed with other Departments and/or be open to seniors in other majors. Depending upon the topic being covered and enrollment the course may be open to juniors. Approval of the Instructor is
213	This course investigates the ways in which a commitment to nonviolent social action can transform and significantly empower people to bring about changes in themselves and in the larger society. By examining power and the means of resisting and acquiring it, by studying the ideas and accomplishments of several social activists, and by carrying out one or more projects aimed at social improvement, the instructors hope to assist the students in understanding how people can act to take control of their lives and achieve their goals for attaining a more peaceful and just world.
214	Public finance focuses upon the rationale and impact of the government's collection of revenue and its expenditures. Topics to be covered include the budget system, principles of taxation, tax incidence, the principles of expenditures, the impact of spending on private behavior, as well as the ability of the process to produce appropriate decisions.
215	Financial data is increasing in both volume and complexity. This course examines how statistical and probability methods are used to analyze and understand financial data. Students will learn to develop and evaluate analytical models of financial data from simple regression to more complex techniques. Students will also learn how to effectively communicate the results and recommendations from these models. Prerequisites: FINC 550 and QBUS 550.
216	European philosophy of the early modern period. Main figures are Descartes, Locke, Hume, Leibniz, and Kant.
217	In this course students will learn how forces and torques change (non-ideal) solid materials. Concepts of load, pressure, and generalized Hooke's Law will be developed. The stress and strain of beams and columns will be studied in detail.
218	This course builds on the foundations of general physics to introduce many of the key topics in modern physics, revolutionary ideas in our understanding of the physical universe which were developed toward the end of the nineteenth century into the twentieth century. The topics that are covered range from special relativity and relativistic dynamics; the mathematical foundations of quantum mechanics;wave-particle duality;the model of atomic structure, particularly the hydrogen atom; nuclear structure radioactivity; and the standard model of particle physics, among other important concepts. The theoretical elements of the course are bolstered by the hands-on laboratory component, which includes some of the classical experiments which led to the discovery of many of these modern ideas. Three hours of lecture and one three-hour laboratory period per week. Lab fee. Prerequisite(s) MATH120 and (PHYS120 or PHYS140) ARTS,CFN
219	The study of Supreme Court decisions affecting the rights of the criminal accused under the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Amendments to the Bill of Rights. The case law approach is
220	Students may design a course of study in consultation with a faculty member. This topic, including a bibliography, must be submitted in writing and approved by the professor and the department chair. May be repeated twice with different topics, for up to 6 credits.
221	In this studio art course, students will be introduced to new art forms such as assemblage sculpture, sound art, action art, experimental video and installation art. In addition to studying the history and theory behind new art forms, students will produce original pieces in these new media and present them to the class for discussion. No experience in art or in any of the technical aspects of these art forms is necessary. The course goal is to increase awareness and understanding of contemporary art, and to expand one's sense of aesthetics. No set prerequisites;
222	This course examines the relationship between mass media and government, with a particular emphasis on American politics. Topics include the First Amendment freedom of the press, the influence of the media on public opinion, the role of the media in covering foreign policy and elections, press-government relations, and the influence of new media on American politics.
223	The economic development of the United States from early beginnings to present time. A chronological approach is used to study economic aspects of the major problems of each socialism, and neo-classicism. This course requires substantial reading, including primary texts.
224	This course examines specific themes in American politics, political theory, or public law. Credits for this course will be applied to the Political Science major's American Politics & Justice track. This course can be taken more than once for credit, depending on the content of the specific course for which transfer credit is awarded.
225	A survey of the rise and development of world theatre, from its origins through the English Restoration, focusing on theatre architecture, plays, acting styles, theatrical conventions, methods of production and critical perspectives during significant periods of theatrical activity. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab Fee.
226	A survey of American music from the seventeenth century to the present. Attention will be given to the contributions of the early setlers, the influence of folk traditions, the contributions of ethnic and minority groups, and the major lines of development in symphonic music.
227	This course is an introduction to the interdisciplinary field of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM). Herbal medicines, including TCM have a long history and were the primary health care treatment worldwide until relatively recently. TCM has experienced a great increase in acceptance and use in the United States. We will explore the history, theory, and practice of TCM with a particular focus on herbal medicine. Topics covered will include key historical figures and texts in TCM, Qi, Yin Yang and the Five Elements, acupuncture, and herbal medicine. This class is intended to provide a background in this fascinating subject, and does not enable practice of TCM on its own.
228	A study of the interactions between members of the international system to provide for military, economic, environmental, and social security. Concepts such as power, international law, international organization, human rights, sustainable development, collective security, and national security are examined.
229	To increase proficiency in speaking Italian. 
230	This course introduces students to the principles and application of healthcare informatics and technologies used in traditional and newly evolving healthcare environments. The course will prepare the student to apply computer technology to the management of individuals, groups, or organizations in the various roles of healthcare providers and researchers. Emphasis is on becoming knowledgeable with available resources useful in patient care and educational settings. The interface between the health care delivery system and informatics to provide quality evidence-based client care will be examined. Informatics use in administration, education, research, and clinical practice will be
231	This course provides hands-on exploration for students to assist in the production of Siena College sporting events and programs aired over ESPN3. Students will explore various shooting, editing, writing and production skills and techniques related to live sports productions and programming.
232	Offered each semester with a topic selected to serve as a central theme for that semester. One meeting each week for presentations by students, faculty, and guests. May be taken more than once with different content. Consult fall and
233	This seminar is devoted to the study of individual thinkers whose work has contributed to shape the world's philosophical traditions. Based on primary texts, its goal is to reconstruct the genesis of key ideas, the lines of continuity and rupture in the corpus of a single author, and the impact those have had on other thinkers. Students in this course will be responsible for producing a substantial research paper evidencing philosophical methodology and knowledge. Students may take this course for credit more than once if the content differs.
234	A qualified graduate student may pursue a particular project/topic in the field of Accounting. The project requires the approval of the faculty member involved and
235	This course will discuss current accounting concepts. Topic material will include discussion of financial accounting pronouncements by FASB, or other prominent accounting standard setting groups. Computerized accounting research tools will be utilized. Students either on an individual or group basis will be expected to pick a topic of interest for which they will conduct further research. Requires admission to the MS in Accounting program.
236	An introductory exploration of the various elements involved in creating and responding to the theatre, This course will expose the student to the creative aspects of playwriting, acting, directing and design and will develop the critical skills necessary to the informed audience member. Through discussion and attendance at both professional and academic productions, the student will be exposed to the complexities designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab Fee.
237	A critical examination of the ways in which values are expressed in business decisions within the religious and cultural contexts which shape these values. Theories of ethics and social responsibility are examined in relation to issues such as environmental concerns, hiring practices, advertising, consumer demands, and related issues that require self-regulation or government-imposed regulation of corporations.
238	This course is designed to give students a deeper understanding of the definitions of relationship violence, including the impact it has in society. Topics to be covered include adult domestic violence, physical and sexual child abuse, child neglect, rape, elder abuse, abuse in the gay and lesbian communities, and pet abuse. In addition, we will evaluate the various impacts of the violence across socioeconomic lines, the role that gender plays in adult domestic violence. We will also review how social service systems, including social work, education, medical professionals, and the criminal justice system, play a part in the perpetuation of the various types of violence and how they are attempting to reduce the effects of this problem on our society. The course format includes lecture, presentations, discussion, reading assignments, papers, and examinations.
239	The course has four key objectives: First, to give students an overview of the intellectual heritage of public administration and decision making theory, federalism, bureaucratic power, administrative ethics and reforms. Second, to make students familiar with the public policy process, particularly with policy implementation. Third, to convey the basic tools and knowledge of the profession, especially budgeting, personnel, management and leadership. Finally, to familiarize students with current and possible future debates within public administration, including privatization, devolution, democratizing decision making and the global economy.
240	This course is intended to provide opportunities for concentrated study at an advanced level in areas beyond the scope of regular course offerings including topics of current concern and topics specifically identified as meeting specialized interests of students. This course is offered onnan irregular basis. It may be taken more than once with different course content. This seminar is an elective, open to seniors in Marketing and Management. Depending on the topic, it might also be cross-listed with other Departments and/or open to seniors in other majors. In all cases, approval of the Instructor is required.
241	This course, offered in a foreign country, is an intensive study of specific topics associated with international internships. The nature of the student's research will determine which division will award credit. The course will typically involve a high degree of independent research, oral presentations by the students, and a well-documented writing assignment. Besides the specific research coordinated with an internship, the course will emphasize issues in intercultural communication. A student will earn four credits for this course.
242	A continuation of ARAB 101. Further study of grammar, vocabulary, and composition with supplementary readings in the language. Continued study of cultural realities of the Arabic-speaking world. This course is for students who have completed the equivalent of one semester of college Arabic.
243	Field work experience in Accounting/Auditing will explore career opportunities in public accounting firms. Students work 120 hours per semester.
244	This course will examine the molecular mechanisms that control animal developmental processes. This will include a description of the genes and regulatory mechanisms that direct development in a range of animals, as well as the experimental basis for our understanding of these processes. The use of invertebrate model genetic organisms to identify conserved components and mechanisms of development will be highlighted.
245	This course constitutes an introduction to French Literature through the medium of the Drama.
246	This course will explore, at an intermediate level, a biological topic not covered in regular course offerings. Course topics in the areas of morphology, physiology, cell/molecular, ecology are possible, as are topics of a more interdisciplinary nature. Topics will be announced during pre-registration in the preceding semester. This course can be taken more than once with different content.
247	This is a writing course that focuses on rhetorical theory in popular culture, such as the role of context, audience, and purpose in the creation of written and visual arguments. Students employ the language of rhetorical analysis in locating and critiquing argumentative trends found within hip-hop music, movies, fashion, and other observable aspects of hip-hop identity.
248	This course will explore literary topics not normally treated in regular English courses. Specific topics will be announced during the semester previous to that in which the course will be offered. May be taken twice with different topics. An additional fee may be required, depending on the topic offered.
249	This practicum will involve an internship or experiential learning experience in Marketing. Students will explore research experience, career opportunities, and fieldwork experience related to Marketing.
250	The reform of western Christianity in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries as Europe moved from the medieval to the modern world. Special attention will be paid to significant figures such as Luther, Calvin and Ignatius Loyola.
251	Through readings, vocal exercises, and the study of song literature, students will develop basic techniques used in singing including breath control, sound production, resonation, articulation, respiration & registration. Also included will be principles of song interpretation and presentation, and overcoming performance anxiety.
252	A continuation of PHYS-310. Two hours of lecture a week for one semester.
253	This course is designed to prepare the student for transition into the role of the registered professional nurse. The student will be prepared to work effectively within organizations by demonstrating core skills of leadership and management, managing resources responsibly, supporting safe quality care and utilizing evidence-based practice. The clinical component will focus on managing care for small groups of patients while collaborating with the multidisciplinary team, and will identify strategies to promote the safe transition of patients across care settings. The student will exhibit the ability to move effectively into the professional nurse role abiding by the American Nurse Associated Registered Nurse Scope of Practice and the New York State Nurse Practice Act.
254	Advanced study of the language through intensive practice of oral and written Spanish. Students will increase fluency in spoken Spanish through active work on vocabulary and pronunciation, and further refine writing skills through writing and editing compositions. Native Spanish speakers need permission of the instructor.
255	This is an introductory course to the elements of business. It is offered for non-business majors. Students will be introduced to foundational business concepts, including marketing, management, accounting and finance. Additionally, students will begin to explore traditional paths to entrepreneurship. Some emphasis will be placed on understanding the design and development of business and marketing plans.
256	The purpose of this course is to analyze the Western Tradition as it evolved from the Greeks to the Italian Renaissance; to understand and appreciate non-Western civilizations and their encounters with the West; to examine the human condition over time, both the role of the powerful and the powerless.
257	History of modern China since 1840, with particular attention given to China's response to the West, the disintegration of Imperial China, the development of nationalism, and the rise of Chinese communism.
258	Students may pursue a topic of their choosing related to broadcast that must be submitted in writing and approved by the director of the Broadcast and Society Minor. (All independent study courses are subject to approval of CURCS in accordance with College policy. Permission of instructor. Same as CREA 495.
259	As the old adage goes, ""A picture is worth a thousand words. Nowhere is this exemplified more clearly than in engineering graphics. A visual language of design has evolved in this field to allow engineers to clearly, accurately, and efficiently communicate complex design criteria and constraints that would be impossible to convey using words alone. This course provides a general introduction to this language of engineering graphics and computer-aided design (CAD) using industry-standard 3D solid modeling software. Topics include three-dimensional parametric modeling of parts, assemblies, geometric construction, orthographic and isometric projection, dimensioning and tolerancing, and computer-generated design documentation.
260	The lives and work of women scientists in the fields of physics, astronomy, chemistry, mathematics, and biology will be examined. Both biographies and scientific studies will be utilized to study the ways in which gender has affected career choices, education, patterns of scientific work, and the recognition of achievement. The course will emphasize discussion of assigned readings as well as research and writing. This course does not satisfy the mathematics/ science core requirement.
261	A study of Quebec, through its history, geography, arts and literature, political and social structures. Various social justice concepts, such as human rights, equality, equity, and the status of minorities, will inform our study of historical events as we consider a number of questions. What happens when the colonizer becomes colonized? What are the consequences when cultural imperialism becomes a guiding principle of government? Do the rights of minority populations outweigh commitment to the common good? This course will not fulfill any of the French major or minor requirements.
262	This course provides an opportunity for seniors with a 3.0 or above to pursue independent study in a business area that does not fit within a single department's guidelines. The permission of a faculty member and the Dean is required. 
263	This course is the second part of a two course research methods sequence. It includes in-depth coverage of several quantitative approaches to political science research. Particular attention will be given to survey research, experiments and quasi-experiments, and the use of aggregate data. A broad range of descriptive and inferential statistics techniques are also covered in this
264	The political, social, economic, and cultural history of the state of New York from the pre-Columbian era to the
265	The study of Russian grammar and vocabulary is continued. At this level both spoken language and reading are stressed. 
266	History of modern Japan, with principal emphasis on political, economic, intellectual, and social developments since 1853.
267	This course offers students an opportunity to examine literary theory in detail and to apply it to selected texts. Students may study a range of critical approaches, such as New Historicism, Postcolonial theory, and Cultural Studies. Permission of instructor required. Same as ENGL 400.
268	An introduction to the processes and techniques of social research, including instruction in hypothesis formation, measurement, questionnaire construction, sampling, survey research and participant observation. A proposal which demonstrates a student's ability to construct a research design is required.
269	The course examines the role that human differences such as race, ethnicity, gender, disabilities, sexual orientation, and class have in the philosophical conception of the human being from ancient to modern times. Among the themes that may be studies are master and slave, human and inhuman, being and non-being, the visible and the invisible, whitenes and darkness, male and female, the normal and the perverse. The course also wrestles with contemporary criticisms of binary thinking that divides the human family into an ""us""
270	An introduction to quantum mechanics/atomic structure, periodicity, valence bond theory, solid state structure/ thermodynamics, and the descriptive chemistry of the Main Group. Two hours of lecture each week.
271	A study of human growth and development from conception to puberty, including motor, emotional, intellectual, language and social development, and children's imaginative activities, ideals, morals, religion, and interests with particular emphasis on contemporary theories.
272	A continuation of GREK-101. 
273	The objective of the course will be to take a deeper focus upon the principles of sponsorship-linked marketing within the sports industry and beyond. This course is designed to provide the student with both a theoretical and an applied understanding of the values and limits to sponsorship-linked marketing. Various views from both the sponsor and sponsee will be considered. The course views the partnerships as a funding/branding source for the sport and a communication/ marketing platform for sponsors. In the process of developing this understanding the course will utilize basic concepts across a number of disciplines in an integrative fashion.
274	This six-hour workshop is designed to provide the student controlled substances; chemical dependency; drugs of abuse; legal issues for teachers; behavioral indicators of substance abuse; goals of a schoolwide substance abuse prevention program; goals of a schoolwide intervention program; goals of a schoolwide intervention program; curriculum materials on decision-making, coping strategies, and self-esteem; issues of adolescence; and the continuum of services. Fee Required.
275	In this course students will apply the practices, strategies and technologies companies use to manage and analyze customer interactions and data throughout the customer lifecycle. The course focuses on how to improve business relationships with customers, assist in customer retention and drive sales growth. Prerequisite: MRKT 550
276	The course examines the history, cultural, political, economic forces which inform te politics key Asian states and their relations with the rest of the world. The course will examine such issues such as economic development, international trade, human rights, political organization, environment, and national secuirty which impact these countries'domestic and foreign policies.
277	An opportunity to explore areas and topics not covered in the regular philosophy offerings, depending on student and faculty interest. Examples include ""Philosophy and Psychology"" and ""The Morality of War and Killing."" This course may be taken more than once with different content.
278	A continuation of SPAN-301.
279	Advanced oral work through class discussion of selected topics and creation of dialogues. Intensive pronunciation work.
280	A study of popular goddesses from the ""east"" and the ""west"" in their specific cultural and historical settings, with considerable attention to Indian goddesses. Explores iconographies, texts, and worship practices of several goddesses belonging to diverse religious traditions including Hinduism, Buddihism, Jainism, and ancient Greek religions. Introduces interpretive strategies in goddess scholarship from comparative and feminist frameworks.
281	A study of population trends across the world. The course will be organized around three basic variables: fertility, mortality, and migration.
282	The focus is on family wellness across the lifespan and interferences that impact the family. The course will expand and adapt assessment skills to include pregnancy, newborns, children, adolescents and the elderly. Common health problems will be explored utilizing the nursing process. Skills will be included to meet the needs of clients with common health problems. These skills will be applied in a laboratory practicum, hospital, nursing home and/or a variety of community settings. Emphasis will be placed on the role of the RN in the caring environment. Course requires theory, laboratory and clinical experiences.
283	This course will explore, at an advanced level, a biological topic not covered in regular course offerings. Course topics in the areas of morphology, physiology, cell/molecular biology or ecology are possible, as are topics of a more interdisciplinary nature. Topics will be announced during pre-registration in the preceding semester. This course
284	The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the politics of Latin America and the Caribbean and to gain insight into the numerous social, political, and economic dilemmas confronting our neighbors in the Americas. Through the study of selected cases some of the more significant contemporary issues in the region will be explored, including the foreign debt crisis, environmental concerns, immigration, and the process of democratization.
285	A survey of selected philosophers and philosophical schools of thought and their influence on Christian Theology, Christian beliefs and practices. Selection will generally follow a time period, e.g. Ancient, Modern, Contemporary. This course may be repeated for credit when the selected material differs.
286	Study of a foundational level topic. Subject matters will be made public in the official announcements which precede registration. This course may be taken more than once with different content. 
287	A continuation of SPAN-101. 
288	Public Policy studies the actions or outputs of government and the goals and intentions that motivate them. In the late 20th century, government has grown to the extent that virtually every individual, in every aspect of life, is affected by government choices. In this course, we will discuss the process of making public policy primarily by examining major substantive policy areas. From this study, we will be able to identify patterns in policy making as a whole.
289	This course is designed for those students who may be interested in working in service industries and in addressing the distinct needs and challenges of managing services and delivering quality service to customers. The course will build and expand on ideas from Marketing 212, as well as other Marketing courses to make them specifically applicable to service industry settings. Focus will be on the variety of service providers including banking, hospitality, transportation, health care, entertainment, education, insurance and real estate, and other professional services. The customer service function in traditional productionbased organizations will also be included. Prerequisites: MRKT-212.
290	An examination of the stances and attitudes towards nature and the environment taken by several religious communities. The course will assist students to develop a constructive assessment of the theological and ethical contributions religious communites can make to environmental studies.
291	This course is a practical introduction to the aesthetic principles, creative process and technology used to create multi-camera and single camera television programs in the studio and in the field. It also introduces the post-production process and video editing using non-linear softwear along with newly emerging digital technology. This course examines television production methods required for both non-fiction programming such as broadcast news and fiction-based productions. Lab fee.
292	Students complete an additional 200 hours of field experience in their field education organizations. They also continue the two-hour, weekly integrative seminar on methodologies used by social workers, with particular emphasis on developing research skills at the baccalaureate level of practice. Content covers values and ethics, critical thinking, culturally competent research methods with populations at risk, the scientific methodology of research as well as practice and program evaluation techniques.
293	A continuation of Community Development Capstone I.
294	A basic studio course exploring three-dimensional design problems through a controlled sequence of projects dealing with form in space. Emphasis is placed upon developing a student's personal appreciation and creative expression rather than professional skill. Studio fee.
295	The course intrduces the concepts and practices of database design and use from a business perspective. Topics to be covered include data models (object, entity-relationship, and relational, for example), database design techniques, data dictionaries, query language, (e.g. SQL, QBE), requirements analysis, legacy systems, databases for decision support, presentation techniques (forms, web pages, etc.) and basic information on database use in business settings. This course includes hand-on use of a common business database management system to illustrate and emphasize the concepts. Computer use fee.
296	An advanced management course aimed at providing students with in-depth knowledge on the various leadership theories and insight into effective leadership practices. A critical examination of leadership theories and research will be undertaken. Areas of leadership covered include; management versus leadership, trait theories of leadership, behavior theories of leadership, participative leadership and delegation, power and influence, situational leadership, and ""modern"" theories of leadership. Emphasis will also be placed on providing an opportunity to apply the theories in practical business applications.
297	A study of population trends in the United States and across the world. The course will be organized around three basic
298	This course offers an overview of the art of Europe from the beginnings of Christianity to the Renaissance, a span of over thirteen centuries of dynamic cultural change. In the predominantly illiterate Medieval cultures, visual art was used to establish and communicate the evolving religious and political values. Students will study the works of art and architecture for which the Middle Ages is justly renowned: illuminated manuscripts, sculpture, and architecture.
299	This course focuses on understanding nursing as a profession through exploration of historical and contemporary perspectives. Current trends in health care are considered. Emphasis will be place on roles and responsibilities of the nurse. (This course is listed as NURS 100 at Maria College).
300	This course completes the coverage of mathematical techniques for business situations, introducing additional mathematical techniques including applied calculus. The topics covered include nonlinear models, derivatives, graphing and optimization with derivatives, and integration.
301	Motivational questions are fundamental to all of Psychology. The psychology of motivation inquires about the conditions which serve to initiate, maintain, direct, and terminate ongoing behavior. This course considers theory and research associated with the major perspectives on human motivation including instinct, ethological, and sociobiological theories, drive theories, arousal theory; expectancy-value theories, humanistic theories, cognitive consistency theories, and theories of casual attribution. The experimental and clinical significance of these viewpoints receive comparable attention.
302	This course awards academic credit to eligible students for the laboratory exploration of theatrical process as stage managers in the production program. The number of credits awarded will be determined in advance by the Program faculty on the basis of workload and the degree of difficulty of the assignment. A satisfactory written report, practicum journal, and participation in the production program will determine the final grade. CREA 450-454 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any one semester. Lab Fee.
303	A study of representative dramatic types designed to increase appreciation of the drama as literature. Attention is paid to the historical development of the genre.
304	A study of the aesthetics and mechanics of designing scenery for the stage. Students will utilize design, drafting and presentation skills developed in class to create scene renderings, elevations, models and working drawings based on the interpretation of a theatrical script. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is
305	This course provides a hand-on, project-based introduction to the tools and techniques used to acquire and analyze astronomical data. It is intended primarily for Astrophysics majors. Topics covered include: introduction to the techniques of gathering and analyzing astronomical data; telescope design and optics; instrumentation for imaging, photometry and spectroscopy; astronimical detectors; image processing and data visualization; error analysis and curve fitting; data analysis and astrophysical interpretation. Two hours lecture and two hours laboratory. Permission of instructor required. Lab fee. (Same as ASTR)
306	This course provides traditional and alternative theories and paradigms pertaining to the individual as a human system and content on other human systems with which individuals interact (families, groups, organizations and communities). The course uses an assessment framework and an integrated body of knowledge and theory to provide students with an understanding of the bio-psychosocial-cultural-spiritual dimensions of human behavior. Emphasis is placed on how diversity enriches interactions among people and how social and economic conditions may affect the well-being of people. The course also covers how social and economic injustice can create at-risk potential for discrimination and oppression. Emphasis is placed on how to apply course content to consumer situations.
307	This laboratory course introduces modern synthetic methods of inorganic chemistry, and the study of the kinetics, quantum mechanics and spectroscopy relevant to the synthesized compounds. The laboratory emphasizes the use of instrumentation such as Fluorescence/Phosphorescence, NMR, magnetic susceptibility determination, as well as digital data collection and analysis via PCs. An independent research project is part of this course. Four hours of
308	A study of selected novels designed to increase appreciation of the genre. Works from the nineteenth century to the present will be read with emphasis placed on the techniques and purposes of the authors.
309	This course is a literature/language course which will utilize the process of drama staging as an additional tool for learning language. It is not a performing arts class. The course will introduce students to an indepth literary study of a selected Germanic drama, provide students with an opportunity to actively engage in the use of the German language in rewriting parts of the drama for production purposes, and enable students to stage the drama, which will not only drill language, but also facilitate the understanding the drama as content, as well as a form in performance space.
310	A continuation of the study of the processes and techniques of social research, focusing primarily on the collection and analysis of research data. Students will be required to conduct a research project of their own design and to use a computerized statistical package to analyze their results. Lab fee.
311	An introduction to the basic principles and perspectives of sociology through examination of social theme selected by the instructor. Themes reflect a particular intellectual interest or focus of research of the faculty member. Examples of potential themes include but are not limited to: global warming, business and corporate social responsibility race and racism, sex and gender, hate groups, the 1960s, social problems, state and democracy, civic engagement, health and illness, and so forth.
312	It has often been noted that the Western tradition stands upon two great pillars: the Greco-Roman and the JudeoChristian traditions. This course will give the student a broad introduction into the culture and civilization of the Greek people and how they still influence us. Within the course students will study the broad lines of Greek history, the major literary figures and their works, the principle ideas and institutions that informed Greek society, the great acheivements in art and architecture, Greek religious practice, and the ways in which the ancient Greeks live on into the present day and why they still command our
313	This course deals with the development and implementation of organization strategy. It focuses on the perspectives, analytical techniques, and capabilities utilized by managers to improve an organization's probability of attaining sustainable competitive advantage and success in the long term. It is considered a capstone course, which implies that students will be asked to integrate much of what they have learned in other courses into the analytical and decision-making processes. In this course, students will be expected to integrate knowledge and skills from courses in the business core, work effectively in teams, demonstrate leadership skill, communicate effectively, engage in the analysis of complex business situations, and make enlightened decisions based upon reasoned judgments. This is a multidisciplinary course, emphasizing the development of strategies that integrate accounting, financial, economic marketing, and management considerations. The course will be taught by professors from a variety of disciplines, but always with an emphasis on multi-disciplinary integration. Open only to senior School of Business students.
314	This course will use an area of research, theory or practice to apply and extend basic principles of Computer Science. The course may be taken more than once with different topics
315	This course explores various aspects of sports writing and reporting. Students are taught to develop stories for print, radio, television and on-line publications. Students are assigned readings that illustrate strong storytelling techniques, and learn to craft basic hard news stories as well as feature reports and profile pieces. Students learn the fundamentals of shooting and editing video. Students learn to create content under deadline pressure that conforms to legal and ethical standards.
316	This is an applied course on current technologies used for predictive analytics with an emphasis on applications in accounting and financial auditing. The course is based on case studies that incorporate typical challenges encountered in applications: Large transactional data sets with mixed types of variables (e.g., qualitative and quantitative), missing data, lurking variables, confounded predictors and uncontrolled variation. The emphasis of the course is on effective use of the methods, interpretation of results, and recognition of potential pitfalls in their use. The role of effective data visualization is emphasized throughout the course.
317	This academic course offers an intensive travelstudy experience to a biological field station or region of special biological interest. The travel permits in-depth study of a unique biological system, going beyond what is possible in a classroom or in shorter field trips near the Siena campus. Lectures, supervised research into aspects of the course, and orientation meetings will prepare students for an informed travel experience. This course may be offered alone, or may require co-registration in a related Biology course. Topics, credits, and any coregistration requirements will be announced during pre-registration in the preceding semester. May only fulfill the requirement for upper-level electives in Biology when offered for 3 credits. May be taken more than once with different content. Travel costs paid by the student; cost varies each semester. Permission of instructor required. Prerequisites: BIOL-110 and 120; or BIOL-110 and 140; or BIOL-170 and180; Biol-190. Additional pre-requisites and/or fees may be added at the discretion of the instructor.
318	This course examines all aspects of writing and reporting nonfiction feature reports for various media platforms. Student projects include human interest stories and profile pieces. Topics addressed include Associated Press Style, literary journalism, researching source material, interviewing subjects, and audio/visual storytelling techniques. Students shoot and edit video using HD cameras
319	This course provides an in depth review of essential principles of pathophysiology necessary to anticipate, minimize and treat the complications associated with disease. Pharmacological concepts are examined by system and provide a foundation for understanding the pathophysiology of disease and the rationale for treatment. Pathophysiology focuses on underlying disease process and the body's amazing ability to compensate for these changes. A conceptual approach is used to illustrate pathophysiological concepts through carefully selected diagnoses. Through use of case studies, students are actively learning to recognize signs, symptoms and etiology of disease processes and use clinical decision making to connect pathophysiologic concepts to predict functional changes in the body and corresponding pharmacological interventions. Prerequisite: NURS-300.
320	Critical exploration of roles and techniques used by the individuals, publics, NGOs, governments and the corporate sector to further sustainable development in rural areas of developed and developing countries. This course may include required travel abroad depending on
321	Lecture and laboratory covering the general principles of physiology with emphasis on human physiology. Topics covered include homeostasis, complementarity of structure and function, and the physiology of selected organ systems. Required course for Psychology majors. Not open to Biology majors. Lab Fee.
322	This course includes a study of mathematical structures most frequently encountered in Computer Science. Topics covered include sets, functions, mathematical induction, complexity analysis of algorithms, counting methods including probability, recurrence relations, graphs, trees, Boolean logic, and relations. Proofs using mathematical induction will be emphasized. Other proof techniques will be developed. Three hours of lecture and 80 minutes of lab each week. Lab fee. Offered Fall Semester. Cross-listed as MATH-250.
323	Early American Books and Maps (1500-1820) examines the parallels between the origins and developments of the American Literary traditions and the new techniques in cartography, the art and science of map and chart making, both which reflected the period of European expansion through the establishment of the Early American Republic. Prerequistes: ENGL 011 or 101 or 090 ATTR: ARTS, AMSC, ASLT, LTAM, LTBA, LTTP, NOEX
324	This course is an overview of the major institutions and processes of the American political system. Both formal (i.e., Congress, the Presidency, and the Judiciary), and the informal (e.g., political parties, interest groups, the media, etc.) institutions will be covered. It is designed to help the students not only acquire a basic knowledge of American government, but also develop the ability to
325	This course examines health care systems, their policies and outcomes throughout the developed world. The delivery of care, organizational structure, the impact of political and economic characteristics as well as health outcomes within populations provide the framework within which health systems are analyzed. In addition, the impact of health care policies on the larger society as well as emerging trends and problems are explored.
326	A general survey of the uniform commercial code. Sales: passing of title, risk of loss, financing and security interests, bailments, and carriers. Commercial Paper: negotiation and assignment, holders in due course, defenses, banks, debtor-creditor, and bankruptcy. Property: real and
327	This course surveys the cultures and societies of a specified region of the world (Asia, South Asia, Africa, The Middle East, South America, The Caribbean, Australasia, etc.). It covers the major institutional sectors (such as family, education, religion, politics, etc.) and social processes (such as urbanization and economic development). It also examines internal and external forces of social change in these societies. May be taken more than once with different content.
328	The course will provide a basic background in chemical principles and processes in the context of their role in environmental issues. Topics to be discussed include ozone depletion, acid rain, global warming, and general uses and misuses of our natural resources. The goal of the course is to enable students as informed consumers to critically evaluate scientific issues which have a crucial impact on our world. Not open to Biology or Chemistry
329	This course explores theories and concepts necessary to conduct media and communication research, including an examination of qualitative and quantitative methods. ATTR: ARTS
330	This course introduces mathematical background needed for the core data analysis methods of dimension reduction, data visualization, classification and clustering. This is not primarily a course in statistics, as it approaches data problems via linear algebraic methods such as Principal Component Analysis (visualization and dimension reduction), Fisher Linear Discriminant Analysis (classification), and K-means (clustering). Case studies will provide an immersive student experience analyzing high-dimensional data
331	A qualified student may pursue a particular topic in Religious Studies by means of independent research, an extensive paper, and periodic discussions with a member of the department. The student must have the approval of the instructor and the Department.
332	An introductory level studio course covering the practice, history, and theory of drawing. Students will use a variety of media and techniques to study still-life, landscape, and the human form. Students will inquire into the purpose of drawing and analyse the historical and contemporary uses of the media. Emphasis will be placed on the creative application of the media. Studio Fee.
333	The student is introduced to the functions and competencies within project management. The course focuses on providing students with a solid understanding of the competencies and phases of managing projects as well as the key challenges that organizations and leaders face in successfully managing projects. Topics include project integration, project scope management, time and cost management, quality management, human resource planning, risk management, communications, change management and procurement management.
334	An introduction to the social aspects of environmental problems and solutions. It examines the ways in which social institutions and lifestyles lead to environmental deterioration. It also looks at the consequences of environmental decay for human health and well-being. It examines efforts to preserve the natural environment through the Environmental Movement, drives to save particular ecosystems, and changes in thinking about environmental issues. (Same as SOCI-160.) .
335	This course is a continuation of BIOL-110. Emphasis is on the deversity of living organisms including morphology, phylogeny, physiology, and ecology of major taxa. Lab work includes experiments designed to illustrate basic biological concepts. Emphasis is on the diversity of life. This course intended primarily for School of Science majors. Lab fee.
336	This course examines the management of organizations that deliver healthcare services such as hospitals, nursing homes, multi-specialty clinics and home healthcare agencies. Students will analyze the organization, functions, roles and performance measures for effective planning and decision-making by today's healthcare managers in the context of the U.S. healthcare delivery system and current healthcare delivery programs. Students will examine principles of effective management including organizational design, motivation, leadership, conflict management, teamwork and strategic alliances for dealing with emerging issues in the healthcare industry and relating to the delivery of effective, patient-centered care. Current events and case studies will be used to illustrate how managers use available information and data to improve the quality of organizational decisions
337	A survey course designed to introduce students to the crosscultural and global economic issues that have an impact on doing business. Through projects and case studies, students will explore the impact of cultural and economic differences
338	This course is intended to enhance a student's command of English vocabulary and expression. It has been estimated that over 60% of our words derive ultimately from Latin or Greek. This study will explore the etymology and evolution of English word roots derived from the classical languages. We will also study the etymology of the basic vocabulary used in the arts, politics, medicine, law and the sciences. The course is also intended to enhance a student's performance in the verbal sections of pre-professional and graduate exams, such as the GRE exam.
339	This course consists of selected case studies to be presented in class by student teams. The objective is to encourage the students to develop the ability to identify problems, and through applying the tools of finance, evaluate alternatives and arrive at viable solutions to the
340	This course examines the origins and historical development of Christianity, including its contemporary, global diversity. It will not adopt the perspective of any one Christian tradition, but will include a variety of perspectives, from within Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Protestant, and dissenting traditions. The course explores major issues and movements within Christianity that have been important in the development of western intellectual, cultural, and religious traditions. These may include sin and redemption, the imitation of Christ, worship and devotion, colonialism and the spread of Christianity, and the Church and secular society in America.
341	Introduction to the fundamental concepts of mathematical analysis. A two-term course that studies the real number systems, limits, sequences, series, convergence, uniform convergence, functions of one variable, continuity differentiability, Riemann integration, functions of several variables, line, surface, and volume integrals, Offered
342	A basic introduction to reporting and writing the news for broadcast, both radio and television. Students learn what constitutes news, how to develop news stories and the basic audio and video elements required in broadcast issues in broadcast journalism and major developments in
343	The course will emphasize concepts and principles that enable the student to understand the philosophy and environment of auditing and assurance services. It is an overview of the public accounting profession and the Generally Accepted Auditing Standards utilized by the profession in reporting on the financial statements of
344	A study of Spanish literature from the Generation of '98 to the contemporary period.
345	An introductory level studio course covering the practice, history, and theory of painting. The use of the brush, color theory, and the depiction of space will be explored through the observational study of a variety of subjects. Students will inquire into the purpose of painting and analyse the historical and contemporary uses of the media. Emphasis will be placed on the creative application of the media. Prerequisite: CREA-200 or permission of the instructor. Studio fee.
346	A survey of European history between roughly 1350 and 1500, with special emphasis on cultural change and on Italy.
347	The course introduces students to the creative process of doing mathematics and the language and style of precise mathematical communication. We do this by investigating logic, set theory and mathematical proof. The main emphasis of the course is on composing logically correct mathematical arguments and communicating those arguments through oral and written presentations.
348	An investigatin of the biblical, historical, psychological, and sociological roots of liturgy emphasizing the place of ritual in human and Christian personal development. ATTR: ( ARTS, CAR, CFH, RSRT)
349	A study of the relationship of religion and globalization in both their historical and contemporary manifestations. The course will focus on the development of New Religious Movements as global phenomena, the rise of ""Fundamentalist"" movements as a response to global and modern developments, and the Franciscan Tradition as a Christian encounter with RSWR)
350	A student research oriented course requiring a substantial paper based on direct investigation of primary sources. Papers will be critiqued by members of the class. Additional, shorter writing assignments may also be required. Topic will vary with instructor. Open only to History and History
351	This course explores the religious and theological dimensions of liberation theology. Attention will be focused on the claims about God's activity, human nature, and the Christian life made by the advocates of liberation. Recent texts by Black. feminist, gay, and Latin American theologians will form the context for class discussions.
352	A survey of communications law including libel, privacy, confidentiality, and access to information as these issues pertain to broadcast journalists. This course also covers key ethical issues faced by broadcast journalists including finding facts through a variety of sources; dealing with conflict of interest and avoiding harm.
353	Critical analysis of the social construction of gender and its intersections with other relations of power, such as race, class, and sexuality. Examining issues of gender and
354	This course builds on the knowledge base contained in previous courses taken by actuarial students. The goal is to reinforce understanding of the fundamental concepts of financial mathematics, and how those concepts are applied in calculating present and accumulated values for various streams of cash flows as a basis for future use. Students will review basic financial instruments and expand their knowledge base to more modern financial analysis using yield curves, spot rates and immunization. Finally, students will be introduced to the concept of risk management and understand how principles such as derivatives, forwards, futures, short and long positions, call and put options, spreads, collars, hedging, arbitrage, and swaps affect a
355	This course is a broad introduction to a variety of fundamental topics in computer science through a contemporary theme such as robotics, the web, graphics, or gaming. Students will consider problems in the application area that can be solved with software. Using the theme of the course, students will be introduced to important areas of computer science including abstraction, computer organization, representation of information, history of computing, ethics, and the development and evaluation of algorithmic solutions using an appropriate programming environment. Themes may differ across
356	Applied Project Management is an elective course for student choosing to major or minor in the Management discipline and is a required course for students seeking to earn a Business concentration in Project Management. The course also serves as a capstone for Management majors choosing to specialize in Project Management. Students apply management techniques and strategies required for successful planning, coordination, implementation, and evaluation of projects. This course integrates practical/experiential work with academic work to provide students the opportunity to develop proficiency in project management competencies.
357	Theatre Production is designed for students who wish to work on the theatre program's live theatre production each semester. Once a student has accepted a role as an actor, designer, technician, or manager they can enroll for 0, 1, 2 or 3 credits depending on the size and scope of their responsibilities. The production class is the heart of the program where theory becomes high impact practice and culminates in several performances with a live audience. It can be repeated. Permission of Instructor is required.
358	This two-hour lab provides students with knowledge of the definition of child abuse, maltreatment and neglect according to NYS Family Court and Social Services Law, and explores the legal and ethical implications of the law for practitioners.
359	Students are acquainted with the process of actor training character development through workshop, discussion, and attendance at professional and academic productions. Laboratory sessions are devoted to the preparation of scenes, exploration of the actor's body and voice, and an examination of the student's ability to feel, to communicate, and to imagine. This course is designed for students with no previous acting experience or those with some experience, but no training. A field to a professional
360	Student teams will work on semester-long projects under the guidance of the instructor. Students will study data related problems and various concepts, techniques and technologies for tackling the problems. Class time will be used to organize teams, coordinate schedules, develop work plans, and present team progress reports. Presentations will be made by faculty members and industry professionals engaged in data-related problems. The project teams will comprise students with different levels of expertise. Students minoring in Data Science will be grouped with student majoring in Data Science. Students will tackle data problems from either real clients (internal and external) or from instructor-developed problems similar to those found in the professional workplace. A goal of the course is to help students integrate the knowledge and skills they acquired in previous courses and demonstrate their ability to work together to develop practical solutions to realistic data problems.
361	Some of an organization's most valuable assets are the brands that it has invested in and developed over time. In this course, students take a customer-centric approach to explore brand management with the goal of identifying the ingredients for building and managing inspired brands. The course focuses on improving student's marketing skills and understanding of specific marketing topics, as well as ""big picture"" issues of how various aspects of marketing ""fit together,"" all from a brand equity perspective. Prerequisite: MRKT 550
362	A study of Hinduism in its specific cultural and historical settings, paying considerable attention to diverse Hindu texts and practices from the ""east"" and the ""west."" Explores Hindu iconographies, narratives, spaces and ways of worship. Introduces interpretive strategies from comparative, feminist, social, and
363	Much of the mathematics which impinges on everyday life is of the finite variety. This course will introduce students to topics from Number Theory, Combinatorics, Complexity Theory, Difference Equations, Game Theory, Geometry, Graph Theory, Information Theory, Group Theory, Logic, Probability and Simple Descriptive Statistics, and Set Theory. Preference will be given to topics which convey to the student the prevalence of finite mathematics in modern society, with applications which are accessible to student experimentation Primarily intended for Liberal Arts and Business
364	An in-depth study of the principles and objectives of the techniques and theories used in managerial accounting. Topics such as capital budgeting; variance analysis; cost allocation; management control systems and quantitative techniques for planning and control will be discussed. Lab 
365	This academically oriented course will be taught in German and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Germanic-speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost varies each semester. This course will fulfill a language requirement and count toward a minor in German. Permission of instructor is required.
366	This course will explore the changing intellectual, economic, institutional and cultural relationships that have characterized medicine in world history from antiquity to the present. We will consider the education of practitioners, the locations of healing, the availability of treatment, and the expectations that people had of medicine as ideas about the body and illnness shifted radically with new discoveries and theories about health and disease. We will study the evolution of public health and examine the social responses to epidemic disease. Students will learn about the role of general social and cultural trends (industrialization, technology) in shaping medical practice and the medical professions.
367	Visiting executives will discuss their companies' goals and objectives and how their functional tactics and control methods support their strategies. The course content will integrate the functional areas of business as influenced by global competition and rapid technological change while optimizing the contribution of managers and employees. Open to seniors in the School of Business or by permission of instructor. 
368	A survey of the social, cultural, and political developments of the Ancient Greeks, beginning with the MinoanMycenaean and continuing from the Homeric through the
369	This course will use an area of research, theory or practice to apply and extend basic principles of Computer Science. The course may be taken more than once with
370	A student may earn 3-8 credits by serving as an intern in a foreign country. Placements are available for students from each school. The nature of the internship will determine which division will allocate credit. Typical opportunities include work in parliaments, law offices, theatres, museums, non-profit organizations, banking, hospitals and businesses. Students will work from 10 to 32 hrs. a week, depending on the program selected. The internship will involve a sizeable research project linked to the work undertaken. The GPA requirement is 2.75. Students who wish this internship to be counted as an equivalent to an internship in a department, must receive advance permission from the head of that department.
371	Electronics is at the heart of much of modern society. This course is an in-depth exploration of analog circuits, including series and parallel resistor networks, diodes, transistors as switches and amplifiers, and operational amplifiers with comparators and amplifier applications. It uses MATLAB and Simulink to facilitate circuit design and to select and simulate circuit test point values. The laboratory component of the course develops competence with multimeters, protoboards, function generators, and oscilloscopes with the goal of predicting and troubleshooting circuit kits which use the components studied in class. Finally, projects with microcontrollers provide an introduction to digital circuit topics. Three hours of lecture and three hours of lab per week. Lab fee. Prerequisite(s): PHYS 120 or PHYS 140
372	This course introduces students to the history, practices, and principles of print and digital design. A variety of design projects from logos to websites focusing on composition, color theory, and typography provide students with the skills needed to communicate an idea using imagery and text effectively. With each project, we will improve our visual literacy by exploring the function of a fundamental design element through digital practices using essential software programs in the Adobe Creative Suite. Throughout the semester, students will develop a strong understanding of design theory and acquire the tools to explore their options within the field of visual art and design. Prerequisite: CREA-102 or CREA-112 or CREA-200, or permission of the instructor. Studio fee.
373	Forensic accounting differs significantly from both traditional accounting and auditing. Traditional accounting primarily focuses on recording financial transactions in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The objective of most audits is to offer an opinion on the reasonable presentation of financial statements. Forensic accounting involves the application of traditional expertise in accounting, auditing and finance, coupled with the knowledge of investigative techniques, and communication skills. The Forensic Accountant must be well versed in fraud schemes, rules of evidence and the valuation of assets and liabilities. Forensic Accountants combine their knowledge and skills in litigation support and investigative accounting settings. This course is divided into six (6) overlapping areas relevant to forensic accounting. These are: 1) Communications (verbal & written); 2) Investigative Techniques; 3) Fraud Schemes; 4) Fraud Prevention; 5) Economic Damages & Valuations; and 6) Digital Forensics. Specific areas of study within Communications include; Interviewing, Report Writing, Flow Charts, Expert Witness Preparation, and Graphic Analysis.
374	A wide variety of problems from business may be solved using equations. Managers and economists use equations and their graphs to study costs, sales, national consumption supply and demand, market equilibrium points, and optimum production levels. This course will develop the algebra skills and graphing skills needed to be able to successfully solve these business applications.
375	Lecture and accompanying lab focused on the structure and function of the human body. Emphasis will be on metabolism, homeostasis, reproduction, and major organ systems. Designed
376	This course explores the interactions between individuals and systems in which they live and work. Students will learn how the dynamics of communication, decision making, motivation, teamwork, leadership, and culture influence the strategies, structures, processes and interactions that take place in organizations. The class will focus on generating innovative solutions in dynamic environments, evaluating the impact of actions on stakeholders and the environment, working collaboratively, building leadership capacity throughout organizations, and the importance of personal growth.
377	This seminar aims to introduce history students to both the methods and philosophical problems of history. The seminar will first consider a historical issue or a school of historical writing or the works of an eminent historian. It will then consider the philosophy of history and the questions historians have asked about their discipline.
378	The Financial Management course examines how firms create value, manage risk and measure performance. Students will learn how to evaluate financial information and make value-creating decisions and determine how environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors impact firm value. Topics include financial analysis and planning, risk-return relationships, cash flow, and working capital management as well as investment priorities, capital structure, valuation techniques, and capital budgeting applications.
379	This course offers three semester hours credit and explores political, economic, socio-cultural, and structural factors that create, encourage, and manage the transnational movement of populations worldwide. In particular, this seminar emphasizes an analysis of both the positive and negative implications of population movements on refugee sending and receiving countries. It also examines the impact of migration on marginalized and poor communities both in the industrialized and the developing world.
380	Study or research on an advanced mathematics topic under the tutelage of a qualified faculty member. May be taken more than one semester. Permission of faculty mentor and department head required for registration.
381	Lecture and laboratory address the application and theory of various analytical methods including gravimetric, electrochemical, and spectrophotometric analysis, chromatography and statistical treatment of data and error analysis. Two hours of lecture and four hours of laboratory each week.
382	The course examines the underlying causes for the origins and propagation of the Great Recession of 2007. Though the primary trigger for the recession was the subprime mortgage crisis, but its origin can be traced to lax monetary policies, the ""saving glut"", deregulation, securitization, the widespread use of derivatives, and income and wealth polarization. In response to the crisis, various monetary and fiscal policy steps have been taken. The purpose of this course is to develop analytical tools to understand the crises and policies henceforth from mainstream and heterodox perspective. In the process we will focus on understanding how money, the banking system, and the financial markets interact and affect the economy. We will also look at past financial crises in the United States and elsewhere in the world to compare and contrast the Great Recession of 2007.
383	By the mid-1st Century BCE, Rome had become the most powerful military and political force in the ancient world. At that time, Roman territory stretched from Spain in the west to lands bordering ancient Mesopotamia in the east. This empire had been won by Rome while under a republican form of government that had existed for over 400 years. However, at the very point at which Roman power reached its zenith, its republican government collapsed, giving way to rule by Rome's first emperor, Augustus. In this course, we will study in detail the political and social conditions prevailed during this pivotal era in which Rome was transformed from a republic to a principate. In addition, we will study the literature, art, and architecture of the Augustan Age. A variety of resources will be including primary and secondary sources, together with slide presentations.
384	Internships in philosophy, which are open to all majors, can be taken as early as one's sophomore year. Students will work with local organizations that stress philosophical components such as environmental and social justice, aesthetic well-being, freedom and its limits, and questions relating philosophy to the sciences in their mission or practice. Internships typically combine traditional academic work with onsite field experience to enable students to increase their understanding of and ability to implement theoretical notions and views. Interested students should submit an application to the department during the semester preceding the proposed placement; applicants will be screened and accepted based on academic record and readiness to function effectively in the field. For philosophy majors and minors, no more than 6 Internship credits may count towards satisfaction of the major or minor requirements; this course may be taken more than once with the permission of the Internship Supervisor. Prerequisites: PHIL-101 or PHIL-103.
385	A survey of the history, development and structure of the religious traditions of Buddhism including the Theravada, Mahayana, Tibetan and Zen traditions. The religious experience of Buddhists and its impact on the cultures of India, Central Asia, China and Japan are examined. In addition attention is paid to the growing presence of Buddhism in Europe and the United States.
386	A qualified student, with the approval of a faculty mentor and the department, may work under close supervision to join a research project conducted by a faculty member. Participating in research will include activities such as the following: conducting extensive library research, providing annotated summaries, attending local colloquia, reviewing manuscripts. Students will be required to keep a log of their activities and to prepare a narrative report upon completion of the semester. This course can be taken only on a pass/fail basis.
387	The study of Late Antiquity will investigate the fundamental period of transition from the classical to medieval world as it was experienced across the Mediterranean. Spanning the crises of the Late Roman Empire to its disintegration, it will encompass diverse areas of inquiry: the establishment of Christianity with the Roman Empire; the barbarian migrations and the ensuing destabilization of the Roman Empire in the west , the emergence of the papacy and the rise of the Frankish king, Charlemagne as a new emperor; the continuity of the Roman Empire in the east through the successors of Augustus who ruled the ""Byzantine"" Empire from Constantinople; the emergence of the Islamic caliphate and the founding of Bagdad. Same as Hist 337.
388	A study of the person and work of Jesus in light of recent historical research and theological reflection. Students will explore a variety of scholars' answers, and formulate answers themselves, to questions such as: What methods are best suited to studying the person and work of Jesus? Who was Jesus? What did he do? What was his main message? With whom did he associate and why? With whom was he in conflict and why? What is the significance of his life, death, and resurrection? How is he related to God? How is related to his followers?
389	This course is designed to explore areas and topics not treated in the traditional history course offerings. The area or theme will be studies in depth and emphasis will be on discussion. The subject will be announced before the semester in which the colloquium is to be given. An additional fee may be required, depending on the topic offered. May be taken more than once with different topics.
390	This course offers an overview of the art of Europe from the beginnings of Christianity to the Renaissance, a span of over thirteen centuries of dynamic cultural change. In the predominantly illiterate Medieval cultures, visual art was used to establish and communicate the evolving religious and political values. Students will study the works of art and architecture for which the Middle Ages is justly renowned: illuminated manuscripts, sculpture and architecture.
391	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Finance at an intermediate level. Prerequisite course may be required. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. It may be taken more for credit multiple times for different topics.
392	This course focuses on knowledge, skills, values and ethics competencies in social work practice with treatment and task groups. Cultural competence is emphasized in working with group members of diverse backgrounds as well as strategies for the promotion of social justice through groups.
393	A thorough review of the structures of Arabic, supplemented by selective readings. The audio lingual aspect of the language is further developed, and the ability to read with understanding is increased. Further cultural study. This course is for students who have completed the equivalent of two semesters of college Arabic.
394	The development of quantum mechanics and special relativity in the early part of the 20th century revolutionized how humanity viewed reality. Quantum mechanics threw out the determinism that had guided the previous 2000 years of scientific thought in favor of a statistical interpretation of nature which called into question what it even means to make a measurement. This course develops the mathematical foundations underpinning quantum theories and shows how these lead to counterintuitive yet testable predictions which are validated by countless precision measurements. The course covers a broad range of topics, including the basic postulates of the quantum mechanics;wave-particle duality Heisenberg uncertainty principle;the Schrodinger equation and its solution for one-dimensional systems;the hydrogen atom; and perturbation theory.Four hours of lecture per week ARTS,PHYS
395	A survey of world theatre, from its origins to the 21st Century. This course focuses on diverse world views and functions of performance as seen in the theatre of various cultures and historical periods. Areas of study include the occasions, social contexts, styles, and locations of theatrical performance; methods of production; and critical perspectives. The course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required.
396	This course provides a hand-on, project-based (Same as PHYS 390) Bang). (Same as PHYS 392)
397	This course provides a more in depth discussion of the taxation of entities other than individuals. Topics include the taxation of Subchapter C or 'regular' corporations and the tax effects of transactions with shareholders: from organization, to operation, to termination or liquidation. Similar tax provisions relating to Subchapter S corporations and partnerships are also covered and compared and contrasted with those of Subchapter C corporations. An introduction to multistate taxation will be made with an emphasis on the taxation of entities in New York State. Coverage of federal gift and estate tax provisions will be incorporated as well. Building on the research skills acquired in the undergraduate taxation course students will research, analyze and communicate conclusions about issues
398	This course addresses the conventions and style of all forms of communications in chemistry: scientific writing, oral presentations, presentation of data in tables and figures. This course meets onehour each week.
399	This is an elective Accounting Topics course in the MBA program. This course involves the application of expertise in accounting, auditing and finance, coupled with the knowledge of investigative techniques and communication skills. The Forensic Accountant must be well versed in fraud schemes, rules of evidence and the valuation of assets and liabilities. Forensic Accountants combine their knowledge and skills in litigation support and investigative accounting settings.
400	The historical origins of Islam, the emergence and development of various strands of religious tradition, and their impact on the modern world. Analysis and historical survey of such key concepts as tawhid (essence of Islam), and of its basic categories for religious life, theology, law, literature, philosophy, and science. In addition attention is paid to the growing presence of Islam in Europe and America.
401	This course is an historical survey of American literature from the pre-colonial period through the twenty-first century. Covering a broad range of significant American authors, the course will examine writers within an historical and cultural context.
402	This is an applied course on current technologies used for predictive analytics with an emphasis on applications in business. The course is based on case studies that incorporate typical challenges encountered in applications: Large transactional data sets with mixed types of variables (e.g., qualitative and quantitative), missing data, lurking variables, confounded predictors and uncontrolled variation. The emphasis of the course is on effective use of the methods, interpretation of results, and recognition of potential pitfalls in their use. The role of effective data visualization is emphasized throughout the course. (Same as MACC 545)
403	A study of several major Shakespearean plays. The works will be analyzed against the background of Shakespeare's life and times.
404	A study of the aesthetics and mechanics of designing lighting and sound for the stage. Students will utilize design, drafting and presentation skills developed in class to create lighting cues, lighting plots, electrician schedules, sound plots, sound cues and sound recordings based on the interpretatin of a theatrical script. Students will have the opportunity to explore the principles of lighting in a lighting laboratory using current technology. Students will also use current sound technology to record, construct and manipulate sound effects. This course is designed for students with no theatre experienceas well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a
405	An analysis of sociological thought with an emphasis on those theorists and concepts that have great impact on modern sociological theory and research. 
406	This fundamental course explores the multitude of ways that digital applications are used in the field of art and design. Essential software programs in the Adobe Creative Suite will be introduced as students build familiarity with the use of line, shape, texture and color in order to create designs that build a sense of space, time, and motion. Projects such as photo collage, pattern design, and character animation will help students develop familiarity with concepts of harmony, scale and proportion, and contrast and emphasis. Knowledge of these tools and how they work will help students better understand art and design aesthetics for 2D mediums such as screen based and print media as well as photography, film, and animation. Studio fee. applications for the World Wide Web. Lab fee. Computer use fee.
407	Geographic Information Systems (GIS) is a tool for viewing and analyzing spatial information. In this course, students will learn GIS fundamentals through applied projects that explore environmental issues. Topics include delineating watersheds and river networks, plotting GPS data, analyzing land-use trends over time, tracking weather systems, classifying remote sensing data, and mapping ecosystem patch structure and dynamics. Emphasis is placed on gaining hands-on experience using the ESRI ArcGIS and Google mapping environments. Students will complete an individual research project and share their research in a
408	A study of the region from the rise of Islam to the beginnings of modernization, with emphasis on the interplay of politics, religion, economy, and culture between 600 and
409	Foundations in Chemistry introduces the basic principles of chemistry and establishes the mathematical foundation necessary to succeed in the general chemistry course sequence. Course registration requires permission of instructor. 
410	A close reading of selections from Ancient Greek and Roman narratives and poetry as well as later works of literature that are influenced by myths, mythical themes, and archetypal figures drawn from these earlier works. This course traces the literary genealogy of mythical elements in later works such as The Inferno by Dante, Paradise Lost by John Milton, Antigone by Jean Anouilh, and Ulysses by Tennyson, among others. Special focus is given to these revisions as manifestations of changing cultural and historical perspectives.
411	Matrix Algebra has a wide application of uses in various business disciplines through applications of classical linear algebra techniques. The techniques demonstrated in this course will assist students in solving problems including multidimensional linear programming, assignment problems, Markov chains and stochastic processes, Leontif Economic Models and Cryptography. Calculations will be assisted via the use of R. Prerequisites: QBUS-110 and QBUS-120 or MATH-110 and MATH-120.
412	An examination of certain religious traditions as ways of understanding the development and practice of religion in America. The central focus is on the interaction between religion and American culture. Using a historical approach, the course examines mainstream religious traditions such as Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, as well as non-mainstream religious traditions, such as African American Religion and American Buddhism.
413	Sustainable tourism refers to a variety of culturally, economically and environmentally-friendly tourism experiences developed in collaboration with the host community. This course investigates the relationship between tourism and sustainable development both domestically and abroad. Lectures, discussion, and collaborative projects focus on sustainable best practices as means not only to support earned livelihood and resource protection, but also cultural retention and geographic integrity.
414	This course is designed to explore areas and topics not treated in the traditional history course offerings. The area or theme will be studied in depth and emphasis will be on disussion. The subject will be announced before the semester in which the colloquium is to be given. An additional fee may be required, depending on the topic offered. May be taken more than once with different topics.
415	A continuation of MATH --391. Advanced techniques of mathematical proof are introduced with a continued emphasis on composing logically correct mathematical arguments. Students will work with material familiar to them from the previous two courses. Students continue oral and written presentations of their work. 
416	This course is intended for those students who have a good knowledge of written French but who have had limited opportunity to hear and speak it. Class work will consist of building the vocabulary of everyday speech with a view in oral expression.
417	An introduction to the tools and methods of active research. Topics will include such practical concerns as computer interfacing, control circuits, basic vacuum system design, and proper handling of diode lasers. These skills will then be applied to investigate techniques such as Faraday rotation, interferometry and electron beam steering. One hour of lecture and four hours of laboratory each week for one semester. Lab fee.
418	The course will continue the study of financial accounting begun in the undergraduate experience. Students will be expected to apply prior acquired knowledge to the study of organizations such as partnerships and consolidated entities. Accounting for international entitles and transactions will be discussed along with international Accounting standards. The important role of accountants and auditors in creating, disseminating, and explaining financial statements and business transactions is an admission to the MS in ACCT program.
419	This is the internship component of the Washington Semester Program. This provides the student with first-hand experience in an organization directly involved with the academic track being followed. The internship will be available with Congressional Offices and Committees, Executive branch agencies, interest groups, research think tanks and the media. Students work two full days each week of the semester. Student evaluations will be based upon criteria established by academic and office supervisors. See the Washington Semester section of the catalog for a description of this program.
420	An introduction to religion through an historical examination of western religious communities, the course focuses on Judaism, Christianity, and Islam as they have developed in a variety of forms while retaining certain central traditions.
421	An examination of complex challenges and opportunities related to sustainability in a global context. Students will analyze how national, subnational and transnational actors create and actuate norms, principles, strategies and institutions for dealing with global sustainable issues at the foodwater-energy nexus. Junior standing required.
422	This course analyzes a variety of primary documents such as historical texts and images to understand the history of Spain from prehistoric times to the present. The course highlights how Spain is a true crossroads for culture as home to various cultural and religious groups (Catholics, Muslims and Jews) and as a country with strong regional identities. Contemporary themes of youth culture, tourism, immigration, and the development of democracy complement the study of artistic expressions such as painting, architecture,
423	Laboratory that addresses the application and theory of various analytical methods including gravimetric, electrochemical, and spectrophotometric analysis, chromatography and statistical treatment of data and error analysis. Four hours of laboratory each week. Prerequsite: CHEM-225 (maybe taken concurrently.
424	Public finance focuses upon the rationale and impact of the government's collection of revenue and its expenditures. Topics to be covered include the budget system, principles of taxation, tax incidence, the principles of expenditures, the impact of spending on private behavior, as well as the ability of the process to produce appropriate decisions.
425	A continuation of AMSL 101, an introduction to visualgestural language. Contains the comprehensive numbers, classifiers and grammatical structures. The skill development of conversation and storytelling is emphasized.
426	An advanced management course designed to provide students with in-depth knowledge of the fundamentals of organizational development and change. Emphasis will be on understanding change, how change impacts both individuals and organizations, how best to ""manage"" the change process, and the primary individual, group, and organizational leval interventions commonly used in organizations to
427	This course taught in Spanish will focus on popular cultural production from Latin America, Spain and the Spanish-speaking communities in the United States and deal with questions of diversity and identity. Students will study and reflect upon the differences between contemporary high culture and popular culture utilizing various methodologies. Popular cultural material or media and genres may include magazines, newspapers, television, telenovelas, radio, commercials, blogs, performance, comics, graphic novels, political cartoons, film, street art, music, food, etc. In addition, students will become aware of the historical and social contexts in which popular culture has manifested and has become part of the global exchange and incorporate some of the ideas of
428	An introductory exploration of both the theory and practice of directing for the stage. Students will direct contentless scenes, short plays and/or contextual scenes from full length works, collaborating with students in CREA-140 (Acting I) as an integral part of the course. This course is designed for students with an intermediate to advanced level of theatre experience and training. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab fee.
429	An introduction to a wide variety of forms and themes of the visual arts of the past and present. Students will learn the vocabulary necessary for analyzing and critically evaluating art. Attendance at a museum or gallery show is
430	A historical treatment from the European perspective of the principal developments and crises from the end of World War
431	An advanced marketing course designed to focus on the practical needs of the marketing manager when making marketing decisions regarding price and quantitative analysis of data. The course will encompass two major components: (1) A comprehensive and practical focus to pricing analysis and strategy development to manage markets strategically in order to improve the competitveness and profitability of offers for organizations. (2) A focus on developing and utilizing quantitative marketing decision models to plan, implement, and analyze marketing strategies and tactics. Students will learn how to analyze data when making strategic and tactical marketing decisions, skills that are increasing in demand in corporations and non profit organizations today.
432	Matrix Algebra has a wide application of uses in various business disciplines through applications of classical linear algebra techniques. The techniques demonstrated in this course will assist students in solving problems including multidimensional linear programming, assignment problems, Markov chains and stochastic processes, Leontif Economic Models and Cryptography. Calculations will be assisted vis the use of R.
433	This course is intended to serve as an introduction to the study of exceptional children. Students in the course will become familiar with the broad range of exceptionalities from giftedness to intellectual disabilities. While the main focus will be education of the exceptional person, emphasis will also be placed upon social and legal considerations. The course is recommended for those who are interested in regular classroom teaching as well as special education and school psychology or social work. A twenty-hour field experience working with children who have special needs is required (transportation is the responsibility of each
434	This course introduces students to the fundamentals of epidemiology. This includes basic principles and methods used in epidemiology such as research design, outcome measures and cause and effect. In addition, this course examines social interactions and how they affect health. More specifically, why these interactions result in differential health outcomes within a given population. Furthermore, this course addresses those economic and social forces that create these differential health
435	Purposes and principles of the United Nations and other regional and global international organizations with politics, structure, voting, and policies of member states explored.
436	This course includes a study of mathematical structures most frequently encountered in Computer Science. Topics covered include sets, functions, mathematical induction, complexity analysis of algorithms, counting methods including probability, recurrence relations, graphs, trees, Boolean logic, and relations. Proofs using mathematical induction will be emphasized. Other proof techniques will be developed. Three hours of lecture and 80 minutes of lab
437	A survey of the religious experiences and traditions of selected Non-Western peoples. The traditions which will be examined include the religions of native peoples, Buddhism, Hinduism, and traditions of China and Japan. Emphasis will be placed on the living and dynamic nature of these traditions in the past and their expressions in the con-
438	This course explores the knowledge and skills necessary for effectual interpersonal communication, as they relate to working effectively with others in a therapeutic health care relationship. Emphasis is placed on self-awareness, skill development exercises and the roles of diversity and culture in shaping the communication process. Contemporary topics in health care communication are integrated throughout, such as health literacy and use of technology-mediated communication. Concepts and techniques taught will be demonstrated and practiced in class and applied though assignments. This course covers content often found in medical school communication training. Restricted to BIBA majors
439	This course focuses on marketing entrepreneurship and innovation of new product development and management throughout the product life cycle. The first part of the course studies the new product/service development and marketing process from concept development and testing to market introduction for new or established organizations. Attention is devoted to creating an environment conducive to innovation, recognizing business opportunities, and assessing the market,customer, and competitive situations. The second aspect of the course relates to branding and brand management including the tasks of product positioning, brand personality and equity, and alternating branding strategies. The course facilitates the development of the conceptual knowledge and applied skills students will need in order to meet the needs of a diverse global market across all socio-economic
440	This course is a practical examination of reporting for radio and television outlets including cable. Students practice covering actual news events first for radio and then for television. They gain actual experience in the field with those skills they learn in the prerequisite course, Introduction to Broadcast Journalism, including interviewing, developing stories, and broadcast news writing. Further, students will learn to use a tape recorder and edit audio for their radio reports. They will also learn to shoot news video and edit video stories for use on the college's cable channel. Students will be introduced to the concepts of performance for broadcast reporting. Lab fee.
441	This course is a quantitative approach to security analysis, including the theory of financial statement analysis and valuation of the firm. The course also includes analysis of business and economic conditions, industry analysis, and ratio analysis. An oral and written presentation of computer
442	An academically oriented study of New York State's Dutch Background, this specially designed course offers three semester hours credit for an intense study program in the Netherlands, preceded by orientation lectures, and followed by supervised research into various aspects of the field tour. Travel costs paid by student. Cost varies each
443	This course examines how humans take in information through the senses, and the relationship between sensory input and conscious experience. The visual system is examined in detail as a prototype, and examples from other senses (hearing, taste, touch, pain) are included throughout the course. Among topics included are psychophysics, physiological bases of sensation, attention, perception of form, depth, contrast, motion, object constancies, and perceptual development. Lecture material is supplemented by demonstrations designed to allow students to experience many of the perceptual phenomena studied in the course.
444	This course focuses on Don Quijote and its impact in Early Modern Spain's historical development and literary culture. Excerpts of Renaissance works that were influential to the creation of Don Quijote will also be studied along with transnational adaptations: Spanish and Latin American literary production, films, comics, and other artistic material that will contribute to a deeper understanding of this classical novel and its legacy on the contemporary world. Lectures, readings and class discussions are in
445	This course provides an advanced exploration of contemporary cases in modern media law. Through intense scrutiny of contemporary media cases, students gain an enhanced understanding of the intersection of media law and journalistic ethics in the coverage of breaking news stories, and the applicability of libel law and invasion of privacy torts to the dissemination of information through social media and traditional media outlets. Students will further their writing skills, and develop original legal analyses that reflect critical thinking and require collaboration with classmates on team projects.
446	Students will be intoduced to informal logical techniques and the analysis of arguments. The course stresses critical thinking, the recognition and construction of valid arguments, the identification of mistakes in reasoning. Practice is stressed, including skills relevant to standardized testing, e.g. LSAT and GRE.
447	Collecting accurate and representative air, water, and soil field samples and analyzing those samples using modern instrumentation and techniques is an important component of may environmental investigations. In this course, students learn the theory of and techniques for field data collection, laboratory analysis, and interpretation of air, water, and soil samples for environmental toxics. Topics include active (grab) and passive sampling and laboratory analysis of environmental contaminants using a variety of analytic techniques. Special attention will be paid to the analysis of toxics that are (1) directly produced by and/or impact students and their community and (2) contaminants of emerging concern (CECs), defined by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as those where the, ""risk to human health and the environment associated with their presence, frequency of occurrence, or source may not be known"".
448	This course covers emerging database technology from the standpoint of users, implementers, and administrators. The main topics are typicaly NoSQL databases, data mining, and object databases, all with hands-on opportunities. Additional topics normally include several of the following: cloud databases, security, privacy, spatial databases, temporal data, XML and databases, crowd sourced databases, distributed databases, main memory databases and other topics as indicated by student interest and technological trends. Computer use fee.
449	This course examines English literature from the 1830s to the turn of the 20th century. Through critical reading and writing assignments, students will explore such themes as Industrialization, the Impact of Empire, Self and Society, Childhood, and the Role of Women. Works by such authors as Tennyson, Elizabeth Barrett Browning and Robert Browning, Dickens, Lewis Carroll, Wilde, and the Brontes will be in-
450	This course builds on the knowledge base contained in previous courses taken by actuarial students. The goal is to reinforce understanding of the fundamental concepts of financial mathematics, and how those concepts are applied in calculating present and accumulated values for various streams of cash flow as a basis for future use. Students will review basic financial instruments and expand their knowledge base to more modern financial analysis using yield curves, spot rates and immunization.
451	This course should be taken concurrently with BIOL-120 or BIOL-220. The purpose of this course is to enable the student to present original data in a clear and wellorganized report, modeled after the format of original
452	This course offers students practice in critical thinking, reading, responding to, and analyzing a wide variety of literature. Because the course is writing-intensive, students will gain experience in writing and revising critical essays about literature. Readings will include literature from diverse classic and contemporary authors, as well as various literary genres. Same as ENGL 011.
453	This course is the first part of a two course research methods sequence. It provides an overview of the political science discipline, its evolution, and its subfields. Students are introduced to the systematic, empirical approach to the study of politics, and are alerted to the issues that may arise when doing social science research. In this course students are also introduced to various qualitative approaches to data collection and analysis. Three hours lecture, one hour
454	A survey of the political, geographic, social, economic, and intellectual factors that have contributed to the growth of the United States as a great power; from settlement through the Civil War era.
455	Lectures cover in detail the natural history and ecology of plants with an emphasis on the communities of northeastern North America. Laboratories include field studies of local plants and two overnight weekend field trips to unique plant communities in the region. Lab fee.
456	A survey of the history of Latin America from the 1820s to the present.
457	Study of an advanced level topic selected on the basis of faculty and student interest. Subject matters will be made public in the official announcements that precede registration. This course may be taken more than once with
458	Continuation of RUSS-301.
459	This course uses a political economy approach to examine economics and economic policymaking from the perspectives of gender, race and class. Through this course, we challenge dominant narratives of race, class and gender in economic theory and models of economic behavior. We examine how assumptions pertaining to these constructed categories permeate economic theorizing (about the household, the labor market, work, welfare etc.) and policy-making, systematically reproducing unequal opportunities and outcomes. ENVA-300)
460	A foundation course that intoduces the student to an understanding of both the consumer and business marketplaces. The strategies necessary to market goods and services in a domestic and global environment are discussed from the perspective of a variety of organizational structures. This is accomplished through an analysis of external and internal factors that impact the organization and through the development of an understanding of the strategy components collectively referred to as the marketing mix.
461	This course is designed to develop the concepts within four themes of the individual, health, nursing, and healthcare environment. This course will introduce the concepts of: cellular regulation, immunity, inflammation, self, sensory perception, addiction and development. This course will continue to build upon the concepts of: acid base, comfort, digestion, elimination, fluid and electrolytes, metabolism, infection, stress and coping, oxygenation, perfusion, cognition, and mood and affect. Upon completion, students will be able to demonstrate the knowledge, and skills necessary to provide safe, quality, compassionate and individualized care to promote optimal level of functioning of the patient with a compromised health status.
462	Field work experience in Taxation will explore career opportunities in corporate and not-for-profit accounting businesses, New York State agencies and local government. Students work 120 hours per semester.
463	Qualified students may pursue a topic of their choosing that must be submitted in writing and approved by the professor and the department. to the major. Lab fee.
464	A qualified student, with the consent of the Head of the of Business, and a participating faculty member of the department, may pursue further research and study on a will be directed by the participating faculty member. The number of credits to be awarded (1 to 3) will be submitted to the department head for approval by the participating faculty member. The student will meet with the faculty member for periodic discussion. The student will also submit a satisfactory written report to the faculty member concerned. The student will be expected to comply with all School of Business guidelines concerning such projects. Independent study may be taken twice for credit.
465	This course considers the practice of history outside of the formal classroom. Areas of study may include, but are not limited to, museums, libraries, archives, state and national parks, historical societies, theme parks, publishing, filmmaking, archaeology, and historic preservation. (Same as AMST-475)
466	The history of Great Britain and the empire from 1815 to the present, with emphasis on political, social, and economic changes.
467	Exploration of the contributing elements of sexual behavior in a wide range of animal and human situations. Coverage of the psychological controls and implications of sexuality will include group and individual sexual development, norms of behavior, attraction, gender development and identification, birth control, art, and literature. Additional attention will be paid to the involvement of the retarded, the handicapped, and the aged in sexual behavior. A research paper or class presentation will be required.
468	This course surveys Native American creation myths, oral history, poetry and prose by such authors as Black Elk, N. Scott Momday, Louise Erdnick, James Welch, Leslie Marmon Silko, Sherman Alexie and Linda Hogan. Students will study the literature within its cultural and historical context. The course may include films, guest lectures and a field trip. Same as ENGL 372.
469	The study of French pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, and
470	This course will be offered with emphasis on different topics. The content will be designated by a subtitle. Students may take this course more than once with different content. Not open to Biology majors. This course is designed to fulfill part of the School of Science Core requirement for School of Liberal Arts and School of Business Examples of special topics include: Nutrition: This course is designed to help students evaluate their eating habits based on quantity and distribution of nutrients. Topics will include the chemical nature and biological function of the six classes of nutrients: carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, vitamins, minerals, and water. Additionally, current nutritional ideas on health and Drugs and the Human Body: Covers the biochemistry and physiology of drug action. Topics will include stimulants, depressants, (rohypol and alcohol), analgesics (pain relievers), steroids (oral contraceptives, RU486 the abortion pill, and anabolic steroids), marijuana, hallucinogens, and drugs used to treat depression and anxiety. Emphasis will be placed on how these A study of breast cancer through the lens of evolutionary medicine. Lecture, discussion and laboratory work on breast cancer will be used to explore how the biological disciplines of cell and development biology, endocrinology, genetics, and environmental biology are related to this disease. Studies of breast cancer screening, treatment, and incidence will be used to explore theories of cancer, and the use of evidence-based medicine. Illness narratives will be used to explore the cultural attitudes about breasts, lactation and breast cancer. A major emphasis of the course is the development of skill in reading primary medical literature on breast cancer.
471	This course examines American literature and culture of the Cold War era (1945-1989). The Cold War was a period of American prosperity, but it was also an era of communist ""witch hunts,"" racial strife, war protests, persistent gender inequality, and general anxieties about nuclear disaster, individual liberty, and suburban conformity. In this course, we will explore how writers responded to this fraught historical period. We will examine literary works and other cultural texts (such as films, advertisements, theoretical and historical documents) that break down the boundaries between art, popular culture, and politics. Reading selections will vary, but may include works by: John Barth, Don DeLillo, Philip K. Dick, Allen Ginsberg, Joseph Heller, Ken Kersey, Grace Paley, Sylvia Plath, Thomas Pynchon, Ishmael Reed, Adrienne Rich, J.D.Salinger, Anne Sexton, Kurt Vonnegut, Alice Walker, and Richard Yates.
472	This course covers fluids and heat transport. We will study fluid statics, Bernoulli's equation, viscosity, laminar and turbulent flow, lift and drag, the consequences of conservation of mass, energy and momentum in fluids. The latter topic will lead into a broader discussion of the types of heat flow.
473	This foundational course approaches the study of Spanish with a special emphasis on reading, writing and speaking. Students analyze and read articles and short stories in Spanish, write thematic compositions through a peer and instructor review process, create a writing portfolio, review grammar, and participate in numerous discussions and presentations in Spanish.
474	A study of selected contemporary French language films (subtitled) with focus on the films' artistic expression and psychological, social, historical and cultural content. Course taught in English. No prerequisites
475	This course serves as the foundational course, introducing the nursing student to the philosophical and conceptual framework of the Ellis Medicine the Belanger School of Nursing. As the Continuum of Care conceptual framework is considered, concepts related to the integral nature of the nursing profession within the healthcare system will be discussed. Clinical reasoning and therapeutic communications skills will be developed through the application of the nursing process. The student will be introduced to Quality and Safety Education in Nursing (QSEN), teaching and professional/ legal roles of the nurse.
476	An introduction to the chemical processes that occur in water, air, and soil, and the effects of pollutants on these processes. Consumption of and reliance on limited natural resources will be studied, along with emerging alternative energy sources. The laboratory will emphasize environmental sample collection and preparation, and analysis of these samples by both wet chemical methods and instrumental analysis. Three hours of lecture and four hours of laboratory each week. May be taken as ENVA-290. Lab fee.
477	This course examines American history through a global lens. It provides a broad survey of the political, geographic, social, economic, and intellectual factors that have contributed to the growth of the United States as a great power and its changing role in the world from the Civil War era to 2001. Topics will include immigration and industrialization, social and political reform, cycles of prosperity and recession as well as technology as a driving force in American development. Additional topics covered will vary with the expertise of the instructor. This course also introduces students to the discipline and methodologies of history. Students will engage with enduring questions of human concern, demonstrate competence in historical literacy, and practice intercultural knowledge and respect.
478	The knowledge and physical assessment skills necessary to complete a culturally competent advanced health history and physical examination are the focus of this course. The assessment of pre-existing health conditions, disease screening and subsequent health promotion strategies will be considered with physical, psychosocial, and cultural health concerns across the lifespan. The use of caring communication to explore patient life histories and experiences are integral to this course. Simulation experience will promote skills in collecting and analyzing data to plan patientcentered care utilizing the nursing process. Prerequisite: NURS-300.
479	This course is a sociological examination of media communication, production, and text/content. Media institutions and uses are important aspects of the social experience and ways of knowing our histories and social positions in society. This course combines theory and practice. In this course we integrate critical approaches on media as culture and industries with student projects that take on media production in audio, visual, and digital communications technologies. The course examines the often unequal social relations embedded in how we access media, negotiate the meaning behind media messages, interact with media, use media, and dispose of toxic technological
480	This course focuses on the synthesis and application of theoretical and empirical knowledge within a caring nursing framework to deliver care to a client, family, population or community group. Emphasis is placed on the community assessment process and the development of nursing strategies to assist multi-problem families while considering health on a continuum. This course focuses on transcultural nursing concepts, family systems theory, theories of adaptation and educational needs of various populations. The clinical component focuses on the development of a broader perspective of the nurse's role in a variety of clinical and environmental settings throughout the lifespan. In addition, the nurse's role on the public health team and an understanding of the diverse health care needs of underserved and vulnerable populations, various cultural groups and the LBGTQ population will be studied. Concepts include epidemiology, healthcare policy, economics, health disparity, cultural diversity, health literacy, disease prevention, health promotion, injury prevention, disaster preparation and family care.
481	Calculus 1A and 11A provide life science students with a foundation in calculus based mathematics. Calculus 1A covers the concepts of limit and derivative in depth and also introduces the idea of the definite integral. These concepts provide tools to understand the behavior of the elementary algebraic and transcendental functions. There is a strong emphasis in this course on the applications of calculus to the biological sciences.
482	Through workshop, discussion, observations and viewing and analyzing professional documentaries, students are acquainted with the process of using a camera to produce audio and visual images that record and interpret existing events. The course will examine artistic methods for the production of documentaries as well as the social and political aspects of documentary film. Laboratory sessions are devoted to production and postproduction activities. This course is designed for students with no previous experience or those with some experience but no training. Same as CREA 280. Lab fee.
483	The course will explore the relationship between animal behavior, ecology and evolution. We will examine how animals behave under specific ecological conditions and ask why such behavior evolved. Topics of particular interest include problems of finding living space, food, and mates; social interactions among individuals and groups; and the ways that behavior affects population size and location. One weekend
484	This course provides a hands-on, project-based introduction to the tools and techniques used to acquire and analyze astronomical data. Topics covered include: introduction to the techniques of gathering and analyzing astronomical data telescope design and optics; instrumentation for imaging, photometry, and spectroscopy; astronomical detectors; image processing and data visualization; error analysis and curve fitting; data analysis and astrophysical interpretation. Two hours of lecture and two hours of lab per week. Lab fee.
485	Laboratory, field research, or literature study under the direction of a faculty member. Designed for a students seeking an initial exposure the study of biology in a research setting. Arranged by mutual consent of a student and faculty member. Credit for independent research may be earned in more than one semester. Written permission of instructor required.
486	An intensive examination of topics relevant to advanced literary studies and writing in the workplace. Provides culminating experience through reflection upon and revision of previous English and Writing coursework. Students must effectively articulate the meaning of their Siena College English degree in the world. Students will activvely engage in and/or pursue a specific path, be it for their education, employment, or service opportunities.
487	Courses MATH110, 120, and 210 provide foundation for all upper level mathematics courses. Main topics considered during the first semester: functions, limits, continuity, differentiation, the chain-rule, antiderivatives, the definite integral, Fundamental Theorem of Calculus and trigonometric functions. Applications of all topics are emphasized. Three hours of lecture and one hour and twenty minutes of laboratory per week. Lab fee. Students must purchase an approved graphing calculator prior to
488	A study of aquatic and terrestrial arthropods integrating ecology and physiology with systematics. Laboratory work includes field studies of local habitats, and the investigation of unique arthropod physiological and behavioral adaptations. In addition, the pathological role of arthropods as parasites and disease vectors is considered. Lab fee.
489	Foundations Sequence: The Foundations Sequence is a twosemester, writing-intensive course taken sequentially by first year students. It is designed to provide a foundation for the academic and intellectual life. Faculty and students meet in small, interactive classes to explore classical and contemporary works together. Themes for the first semester are Nature, Society, and The Person, and for the second semester, Secular Worldviews, Religious Worldviews, and The
490	An introductory study focusing on the achievements in Roman art, including architecture, painting, pottery, and sculpture, as well as advances in science, technology, and engineering, from the foundation of Rome to the Late Empire. The course will also highlight major archaeological sites in Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East, which may include, the Roman Forum and Colosseum, the Imperial baths, Pompeii, Herculaneum, Hadrian's Wall, Leptis Magna in Libya, Jerash in Jordan, Caesarea in Israel, Baalbek in Lebanon, among many other possibilities.
491	The function of endocrine secretions in vertebrates. Topics will include (1) evolution of hormone structure and function (2) secretion and transport of hormones, and (3) hormonal regulation of carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism, water and mineral balance, growth, and reproduction. Lab fee
492	This course introduces students to the tradition of nature writing in literature, with an emphasis on American authors. Thoreau's Walden is a central text. Particular attention is given to contemporary multicultural voices among environmental writers. The course emphasizes nonfiction prose but includes some poetry and fiction. (Same as ENVA-220)
493	A facilitated discussion of topics and disciplines needed to frame environmental issues from multiple perspectives. Topics covered can vary between semesters but will include issues such as career preparation, sustainability and food production, resource conservation, water quality, air pollution, alternative energy and climate change.
494	The study of social and cultural change: the causes, processes, theories, and consequences. The case study approach
495	This course focuses on brand management throughout the life of a product. Students will learn how to build, measure, and manage brand equity. Emphasis will be placed on brands and brand management, developing a brand strategy, implementing a brand marketing program, measuring a brands performance, and growing/sustaining brand equity. Additional emphasis will be placed on the tasks of positioning, brand personality, and alternative branding strategies. The course facilitates the development of the conceptual knowledge and applied skills students will need in order to develop and manage product brands to meet the needs of a diverse market across all socioeconomic groups. Cases, individual an group learning projects will be used to provide students an experiential format for learning.
496	A course covering the fundamentals of computer hardware. Topics include data representation using various number representations, Boolean algebra and logic, digital logic devices, combinational and sequential circuits, logic units and simple processor design including registers, memory, addressing and processing of low-level instructions. gates, interrupts, shift registers, ADCs, and memory. of standard peripherals, microcontrollers, single-purpose and general-purpose processors; and basic concepts of interfacing and communication protocols in embedded
497	This course will examine the common body of knowledge needed by internal auditors. Emphasis is placed on the tools and techniques used to assess the economy, efficiency, effectiveness and results of management activity as they are used in government, not-for-profit agencies and the private
498	The history of Great Britain and the empire from 1815 to the present, with emphasis on political, social, and economic changes.
499	A survey of South Africa from pre-colonial times through the arrival of white settlers and the ensuing race conflict which has raged through the centuries, with emphasis on the social, political and economic dimensions, up to the present.
500	This course will use peer evaluation and the traditional writing workshop to foster student skills in writing short fiction. Students are required to distribute stories they have written to class for critique and group evaluation. The works of contemporary writers will be studied with an eye toward formal concerns and techniques. Students will be
501	This course will use peer evaluations and the traditional writing workshop to foster student skills in writing poetry. Students are required to distribute poems they have written to the class for critique and group evaluation. Poetic theory and technique will be examined, and the works of contemporary poets will be studied. Students will be introduced to the art of writing contemporary poetry. writing workshop to foster student skills in writing short fiction. Students are required to distribute stories they have written to class for critique and group evaluation. The works of contemporary writers will be studied with an eye toward formal concerns and techniques. Students will be introduced to the art of contemporary short fiction
502	A survey course designed to give an overview of the various investment vehicles, including fixed income securities, equity related securities, and leveraged investments. The course also includes theories of valuation, risk, and a basic understanding of the securities markets. This course requires computer-enhanced written presentations of research projects.
503	This course introduces students to the tradition of nature writing in literature, with an emphasis on American authors. Thoreau's Walden is a central text. Particiular attention is given to contemporary multicultural voices among environmental writers. The course emphasizes nonfiction prose but includes some poetry and fiction. (Same as ENGL-220.)
504	The purpose of this course is to prepare students to facilitate community engaged sessions or projects. The major emphasis of this course is on designing and running facilitation sessions and creating action plans in collaboration with participants. This course is required for anyone who wants to facilitate for ACE partners and for ACE programs such as the Community Forum. Students may repeat this course up to three times for credit. Permission of Instructor required. ATTR: ARTS, COMD
505	The course will involve a critical evaluation of the ethical implications for business and audit decisions. Individual as as organizational consequenses will be explored by examining a variety of cases and real-life situations. Required admission to the MS in Accounting program.
506	Study of a topic in Astronomy or Astrophysics selected on the basis of faculty and student interest. Prerequisites depend on the topic being offered, and course registration requires permission of the instructor. May be taken more than once with different topics.
507	An exploration of the theory and technique of current theatre technology, including scenery construction, scene painting, properties, lighting, sound, and costuming. Through discussions and laboratory experience in two campus productions, students will learn the practical application of theatre technology to the aesthetics of design. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already aquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is
508	Qualified students are invited to pursue a special project in Classics of their own choosing, and with the approval of the Department.
509	The development of the American West from its role in the Anglo-French conflict for empire to the official closing of the frontier by the census of 1890.
510	This course will provide students with in-depth knowledge of the fundamentals of leading organizational change. Emphasis will be on strategiclevel changes (e.g., strategy change, reorganization, process reengineering) and how to connect to organizational strategy. Topics include understanding change, how change impacts both individuals and organizations, recognizing ethical dilemmas and identifying the impact of decisions on significant stakeholders, how best to ""manage"" the change process, and the primary individual, group, and organizational-level solutions commonly used in organizations to enhance performance. Emphasis will be placed on understanding how change helps organizational success. Prerequisite: MGMT 550
511	This course is designed for students of Hispanic/Latino background who use Spanish at home, but whose dominant and school language is English. It will concentrate on the particular needs of Latino/Hispanic students, basically addressing literacy in the heritage language and promoting awareness of formal Spanish by exposing students to Spanish from Latin America and Spain in a monolingual environment. The course will be taught in Spanish emphasizing the development of writing, reading, and oral communicative skills, with particular attention paid to issues of interference of English, vocabulary building, advanced grammar, spelling and reading comprehension. There is a strong reading component that emphasizes the study of US Hispanic/Latino cultures.
512	Data science and analytics is an emerging field concerned with gathering, organizing, analyzing and visualizing large collections of information in order to extract actionable knowledge, i.e. to make decisions. This course is a basic introduction to the subject. Students will learn to identify data problems and to gather and analyze data using a suitable programming language such as R or Python. The coursework is aimed to help students to solve real world problems obtained from a ""subject matter expert"", i.e. a client who needs assistance with making data-driven decisions in his/her field. No previous programming experience is necessary.
513	The purpose of the Astrophysics Seminar I is to expose students to breadth of current research in the field of astronomy and astrophysics. Students will view weekly seminars from world-class science institutes and then discuss the results in the context of previous course work in astronomy. This course may be taken more than once.
514	A study of computer simulaion and modeling methods with application to physical systems. Topics will be selected from: the two-body problem, linear and nonlinear systems, chaotic motion, random processes, normal modes and waves, numerical integration and Monte Carlo methods, random walks, percolation, fractals, and transforms. Additional topics may be included. Two hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory a week for one semester. Lab fee.
515	A basic introduction to reporting and writing the news for broadcast, both radio and television. Students learn what constitutes news, how to develop news stories and the basic audio and video elements required in broadcast journalism. Students will explore legal and ethical issues in broadcast journalism and major developments in the broadcast journalism field.
516	Instrumental methods of structure determinatioin and quantitative analysis with an emphasis on advanced instrumental methods used in organic and biochemistry are
517	This course is a practical introduction to the aesthetic principles, creative process and technology used to create multi-camera and single camera television programs in the studio and in the field. It also introduces the post-production process and video editing using non-linear softwear along with newly emerging digital technology. This course examines television production methods required for both non-fiction programming such as broadcast news and fiction-based
518	An up-to-date and comprehensive treatment of the aspects of accounting systems building with appropriate emphasis on data for decision making. The interrelationships of the functions of recording, processing, and analysis, using the principles of good systems building, are blended with the
519	This course prepares students to identify and assess new venture opportunities to begin a business on their own as either a traditional or social entrepreneur, or within an established corporate setting. The following topics will be explored to build entrepreneurial capabilities; defining entrepreneurship, ideation and early-stage evaluation of new ventures, conducting due diligence and feasibility assessments, business model development, resource acquisition, generating sales and marketing initiatives for a new venture, competitvely managing a growing venture, and exploring the unique challenge of creating an organization that creates more than financial value. Prerequisite: MGMT 550
520	This course will cover a selected topic at a graduate level. This course may be taken multiple times with different topics. Prerequisites: MGMT-520 and MGMT-550.
521	A continuation of the general physics sequence. Fundamentals of electricity and magnetism, dc and ac circuits, electromagnetic waves, geometeric optics of mirrors and lenses, interference and diffraction phenomena in light. Three hours of lecture and one three-hour laboratory period a week for
522	This course emphasizes reflective nursing practice grounded in a caring science framework. Narrative inquiry and storytelling as an interpretive method for understanding the subjective human experience of health, illness, healing, and death/dying will be explored. The patient's experience of illness will be analyzed through selected illness naratives using multiple ways of knowing and Watson's 10 Caritas Processes. Prequisite: NURS 300 ATTR: ARTS
523	In this studio are course, students will build a series of short videos prompted by topics and genres relating to the history and evolution of video art and experimental film. Students will have access to a range of digital cameras and learn how to edit in Adobe Premiere Pro. The class will also learn Dragonframe to create a collaborative stop-motion video. The course goal is to become familiar with the history, theory, and aesthetics of this new art medium, and to gain experience in making, critiquing, and exhibiting one's own original videos. No experience in art, video, or sound production is necessary. No prerequisites. (ARTS, FILM, MUMD, NOEX)
524	This intensive course develops and improves language skills as per ACTFL Standards: listening, speaking, reading, writing, and cultural literacy. Along with reviewing the grammar that will be covered from the text, students will practice listening and speaking skills through several short oral projects, participate in ongoing conversation in class, listen to music, view film clips, and read websites from Spanish-speaking countries. Students will gain a better understanding of the language system and sharpen skills to get involved in real communication. Students will develop reading and writing skills through short compositions and exercises and cultural competency by continued emphasis on cultural, historical, socio-political realities of the Spanishspeaking countries. To accomplish these objectives, the instructor will implement a communication-based methodology that requires active student participation in class and previous preparation for each class.
525	A study of ecological processes in marine environments of the tropics. Lectures will emphasize the application of basic ecological principles to life in the ocean, then focus on characteristics of marine habitats in the tropics and of the groups of organisms that occur there. The laboratory portion of the course will involve two weeks of intensive field work at a tropical marine laboratory. Because this field experience occurs after Commencement, seniors may not use this course to meet graduation requirements. They may take this course if a.) they are willing to miss commencement, and b.) they meet all graduation requirements without this course. As an alternative, seniors may postpone graduation until the next commencement.
526	This course will familiarize students with the people, events, and ideas that have inspired the Franciscan Movement. Students will come to understand the historical development of the Franciscan movement in all its diversity within the context of the High Middle Ages, in comparison with and in contrast to earlier forms of religious life within the Christian tradition. Topics may include the role of Franciscans in the development of Christian Spirituality over the past 800 Prerequistes:HIST 101,102,103,104 or 190 and RELG 101
527	A student may work independently on a topic of special interest. In a research paper prepared under faculty supervision, the student is expected to demonstrate familiarity with the methods and tools basic to his study. Independent study may be taken twice for credit.
528	This course introduces students to the content and methodologies of American Studies through a consideration of the American Dream. Its focus is the complex relationship between people, land, and built environments, from the Puritan village to the California dream.
529	An introduction to statistical procedures and analysis including descriptive and inferential statistics. Descriptive statistics include such areas as frequency distributions, measures of central tendency, and variance. Inferential statistics include tests of hypotheses for means, analysis of variance, and linear correlation. Not open to students who have taken QBUS-200 Business Statistics I.
530	An historical examination of the Spanish borderland region of the United States between 1513 and 1821 with concluding remarks regarding the period of Mexican authority over Texas and the Southwest between 1821-1848. Focus will include the exploration and occupation of the region as well as social, political, economic, and military developments.
531	The study of formal spoken and written modern Arabic: the writing system, pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, and composition with supplementary reading in the language. Introduction to cultural realities of the Arabic-speaking world. This course is for sudents with no prior study of Arabic.
532	An introduction to visual-gestural language. Contains the manuel alphabet, basic numbers, sign vocabulary, aspects of deaf culture and history, and basic conversational skills with American Sign Language. (ASL). No prerequisites.
533	Provides a review and amplification of selected general physics topics together with techniques and practice in physics problem solving. To be taken concurrently with General Physics I (PHYS-130). Required for Physics majors (including Physics majors in the 3/2 Program), open to all
534	This course will explore a topic not covered in regular course offerings. Particulars will be announced during the semester previous to that in which the course will be offered. May be taken more than once with different content. An additional fee may be required, depending on the topic offered.
535	This course is open to all Creative Arts majors and minors. Students will do and present academic research and creative work in any medium for class critique and discussion with the goal of defining their cretive process and focusing
536	Orchestra is a performance-based musical ensemble course that explores expressive, technical and stylistic approaches to interpreting standard and contemporary orchestral repertory, including different types and genres of art musics from a global perspective. The number of credits awarded will be determined by the instructor on the basis of workload and the level of responsibility. An assessment of competence, progress and improvement in orchestral work and attendance will determine the final grade. CREA-122 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits but may not exceed three credits in any one semester.
537	In this laboratory-based course, students independently develop and investigate a research project as a capstone experience. The investigation will be an extension of skills and techniques acquired in previous integrated laboratories. The course culminates in a written senior thesis and oral
538	This course introduces students to the range of activities and issues of major concern to contemporary industrial and organizational psychologists. The evolution of the field is viewed in historical perspective. Major topics in personnel psychology include personnel selection and placement, utility models and profitability, employee training and development, and performance appraisal concepts and techniques. The current legal guidelines regarding Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action are considered as they impact on personnel practice. Topics in organizational psychology include work motivation, job satisfaction and the quality of life, and perspectives on leadership and supervisory role. Not open to students who have taken PSYC-110.
539	This course is designed to familiarize the student with the rationale of test construction and with the more popular intelligence, achievement, aptitude, interest and personality tests used in clinical, industrial and academic settings, Each student is required to complete a research project utilizing test data.
540	This course presents the legal concepts governing the conduct of business in the United States from a managerial perspective including contracts, torts, agency and government regulations. The course is designed to equip managers and other business persons with an understanding of the legal process as it applies to managerial and other business problems. As legal rules frequently change, the emphasis will be developing independent critical thinking skills.
541	This course covers the valuation and risk assessment of a wide variety of fixed income securities and fixed income portfolios. Fixed income securities are financial claims including pure discount bonds, coupon bonds such as Treasury notes and corporate bonds, floating rate notes, callable bonds, among many others, issued by public or private entities. Fixed income risk consists of interest rate risk and other risks such as credit risk, illiquidity risk, and the risks stemming from securization. Students will (1) review CFA leval 1 material inherent to fixed income and (2) explore more advanced concepts such credit analysis, interest rates forecasting, and bond portfolio management. This course entail 3 credits and is offered each other semester.
542	Mathematical techniques applied to business situations. The topics include mathematics of finance, linear equations and functions, graphs of functions, systems of linear equations, inequalities, linear programming, and non-linear models. This course should be the first course taken in quantitative business. A graphics calculator is required: the TI-83 or TI-84 calculator is recommended.
543	An intensive exploration of some of the fundamental laws of the universe and their application to various systems. Topics will be selected from major paradigm shifts such as the Copernican revolution and the development of quantum mechanics as well as ideas from areas such as relativity, cosmology, the origin of life, plate tectonics/seismology, dating techniques in archaeology, and the circulation of the requirement. Requires permission of the Honors Program Director.
544	Student Investment Fund. This course is designed around the management of the Bjorklund fund (Siena's Student Managed fund). Students gain practical investments experience using advanced valuations and research techniques to (1) allocate across equity classes and (2) select securities for the Bjorklund portfolio, subject to the fund's investment policies and guidelines. The course may be repeated one time for full credit. The course is offered each semester during market hours and takes place in the William R. Raub '85 Market Trading Room.
545	Course to be determined by the student and Washington Semester Program Director. Students can select a course in subject areas such as History, Literature, Sociology, Computer Science, Mathematics, Biology, etc.
546	The course addresses issues of diversity in American society as they have been represented in the American theatre. Through class discussion, readings of play scripts and supplemental material, and attendance at both professional and academic productions, students will examine the various means through which American theatre addresses issues of race and ethnicity, gender, class, religion, and politics. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab Fee.
547	A course that serves as an introduction to the basic principles of forensic science. The purpose of this course is to provide students with an understanding of forensic science by examining the current techniques and instrumentations that are commonly used to analyze chemical, physical and biological evidence. This course will cover the basic science (chemistry, physics and biology) that is required to understand these analytical techniques, but assumes no prior science background from the students. In addition, this course will examine the societal impact brought about by the advance forensic science in various aspects of American society, including law, culture and media.
548	This course examines how the Roman Catholic Church has influenced and been influenced by the process of globalization. Students investigate both the impact the Catholic Church has had on the non-North Atlantic societies in which it has taken root and the diversity of Catholic thought and practice occasioned by its worldwide growth. Offered at least once every two years.
549	A survey of the social, cultural, and political development of the Ancient Greeks, beginning with the Ancient Near East and continuing through the Homeric to the Hellenistic Age. This course may not be used to fulfill the requirement of six hours of foreign language study. (Same as CLSS-200)
550	The course will cover the principles of gene structure, function, organization and expression in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Some specialized aspects of eukaryotic gene mobility, gene rearrangement, cancer genes and animal virus genetics will be studied. Gene manipulation through recombinant DNA technology and applications of this technology in basic research and industry will be discussed in lecture and illustrated through laboratory exercises involving the isolation, cloning and expression of genes in bacteria and mammalian cells. Lab fee.
551	A critical evaluation of the impact of interest group politics on the American policy-making process. The course includes a study of the various theories of the power of interest groups, the formation and development of intererst group organizations and movements and the organizational maintenance of interest groups. Also, the course examines the roles interest groups play in shaping public attitudes, influencing campaigns and elections and lobbying political institutions and officials. Students should have a working knowledge of American government.
552	Research is increasingly utilized by managers. Students will benefit from a better understanding of exactly how research is conducted by participating in a genuine, professional research project. This project focuses on defining the problem, designing the appropriate methods and strategies for gathering data, analyzing and interpreting the data, and reporting the findings to the particular client. Practical knowledge of a statistical software package is an integral part of the course.
553	The conceptual basis of the status of the individual and personal rights as discussed and elaborated upon in the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States. The
554	An introduction to the peace studies approach to conflict and conflict resolution from the interpersonal through the international level. Emphasizes the concepts of peace; conflict; violence; the origin, causes, and nature of war; the morality of war; alternatives to war and violence; social justice and injustice, just world order; nonviolent conflict resolution; and intercultural understanding. Course also open to students not electing the certificate.
555	A study of the interrelations of organisms with each other and the environment. The lectures are equally divided between ecosystem ecology (energy and material flux, modeling) population ecology (population, dynamics, competition, predation) and community ecology (structure, diversity, and succession). The lab will emphasize methodology with weekly field trips to various local
556	A continuation of Math 060, Environmental Mathematics I. While still easily accessible to the typical student, slightly more advanced mathematical topics are introduced,
557	This course examines the treatment of sexuality in significant British and American literature. Readings include fiction, drama, and poetry that centers upon issues of sexuality such as censorship and freedom of expression, religion and sexuality, formations of heterosexuality and homosexuality, power and desire, social regulation of sexual expression, sexual violence, and AIDS. Authors may include: D.H. Lawrence, Jean Rhys, Margaret Atwood, Alice Walker, Peter Shaffer, Harvey Fierstein, James Baldwin, and others.
558	Basics of Singing is a studio course in the foundations of healthy technique for the individual singer. Readings, exercises and literature span a variety of historical periods and languages. Topic include music notation and sight-reading, listening and response, presentation and critique, interpretation, vocal health and pedagogy.
559	Fundamental concepts used in machine implementation of processes which imitate human cognition. Topics include knowledge representation, logical deduction and problem
560	A study of the principles of Federal income taxation primarily focused on taxation of individuals. The course includes an introduction to tax research. Reference will be made to state tax laws to corporate taxation. Lab problems required. Lab fee. 
561	Advertising's role in the marketing mix is related to local regional, and national sales efforts. Selection of media including television, radio, newspapers, magazines, outdoor, direct mail, as well as specialized local media is covered. Students create television storyboards, radio commercials, and printmedia copy and layout. Elements of advertising campaigns are explored through student advertising agencies established to handle real-world advertising assignments. Course includes budgeting, advertising effectiveness studies, sales promotion, and public relations.
562	A survey of Russian history from the reign of Ivan III (1462-1505) to the 20th century.
563	The student pursues open-ended experimental or theoretical investigations of their choice with faculty approval and supervision. The research instruments of the School are available including spectrometers, electro-magnets, an X-ray diffractometer, and nuclear detectors. Seminars and written reports are required. One three-hour laboratory or research
564	This course explores the factors that explain the unequal distribution of health and disease in the world. Students will receive an overview of global health issues through examination of major determinants of health and key areas of disease burdens. Students will be introduced to the interrelationships of economic, political, social, and environmental factors that affect the health of populations globally. Students will also examine global health interventions to understand what
565	The course consists of studio work in Level II modern dance technique, principles and style. The student is expected to master the elements of alignment, placement, rhythm and execution of movements that are unique to the modern dance idiom.
566	An introduction to fundamental management issues and information system principles involved in the analysis, design, and implementation of management information systems. Topics include business information system planning, technology architecture, database design, systems development, decision support systems, internal control, and
567	This course aims to accomplish four main objectives: (1) To delineate the areas in which sales executives make decisions; (2) To analyze and evaluate sales in which sales management decision making criteria and processes; (3) To engage students in a presentation designed to relate the text materials to sales management situations; (4) In addition to the above, students will be introduced to an overview of basic principles of selling.
568	A survey of communications law including libel, privacy, confidentiality, and access to information as these issues pertain to broadcast journalists. This course also covers key ethical issues faced by broadcast journalists including finding facts through a variety of sources, dealing with conflict of interest, and avoiding
569	Field work experience in Taxation will explore career opportunities in public accounting firms. Students work 120 hours per semester.
570	An internship in which students spend a minimum of 5 consecutive weeks working with a community-
571	The course will provide the student with a comprehensive understanding of the entrpreneurial investment process We will focus on essential methods of financing to advance ""ideas"" toward ""commercial success"", as well as the investment evaluation method, and expectations for the wide variety of investment vehicles. These are vital skills that students, particularly entrepreneurs, will find beneficial in the development ,analysis, and launching of their products. This course supplements the concepts taught in other Entrepreneurship classes and will lead to greater entrepreneurial success for students.
572	This course describes the interdisciplinary field that unites inorganic chemistry and biochemistry by examining the various roles of metal ions in biological systems from mechanistic to medicinal uses. It applies fundamental principles of inorganic chemistry (particularly transition metal coordination chemistry) to an understanding of the structure and function of biological macromolecules. Physical methods and instrumentation commonly employed by bioinorganic chemists are also discussed. Using a developed understanding of inorganic chemistry and biochemistry, literature papers on topics of current importance to the bioinorganic community will be
573	Students may pursue a topic of their choosing related to broadcast that must be submitted in writing and approved by the director of the Broadcast and Society Minor. (All independent study courses are subject to approval of CURCA in accordance with College policy. Permission of instructor.
574	An examination of problems in medical ethics that are particulary urgent at the present time, such as: models for health care, human experimentation, organ transplantation, care for the dying, euthanasia, genetic engineering, artificial insemination, sterilization, behavior control, allocation of scarce medical resources, and health care delivery. Readings include a diversity of theologians, philosophers, social scientists, lawyers, historians, scientists, and physicians. RSET)
575	The development of social institutions and currents of thought from the mid-19th cenbtury to the present.
576	This course will have an informational discussion of the role chemistry plays in the paper industry. Topics will include the chemistry of how paper is made, what gives it its strength, and what makes it recyclable. We will then move on to the topic of greening up of the environment as it pertains to paper production; the ecological, social, and engineering aspects of paper production and recycling, as well as the act of making your own paper from readily available sources (the students will get to do this in class). Continuing the discussion of the use of paper as a medium, we will focus on the use of paper as an artistic medium. Whether it is a certain choice of canvas for painting or production of tissue paper for flower-making, we will discuss paper's various uses in the art world from a scientific basis. We will conclude by using our knowledge of the science and philosophy of paper and papermaking to discuss, touch, and use various types of paper to do origami projects. The seven axioms of geometrical origami will start the student's orientation into the world of origami, showing them how to fold and manipulate paper. We will discuss the origins of origami, from ancient Japanese toys through the Yoshizawa era. We will also get to discuss and possibly use advanced origami techniques that utilize sizing solutions to help the paper conform to various shapes (a practice called wet-folding).
577	This course surveys human mental processes. Cognition involves the ability to store, retrieve, and use knowledge. In-class demonstrations and activities supplement lecture material on attentional processes, memory, imagery, concept formation, language, reasoning, problem-solving, and creativity. The course emphasizes theoretical and experimental aspects of cognitive psychology as well as everyday applications, and relates cognitive processes to other areas of psychology such as development, clinical, social,and neuropsychology.
578	This humanities-based course may draw upon material from philosophy, the sciences, literature, religious studies, history and the various arts to encourage broad reflection about our obligations to the environment. One aim is to introduce students to the basic ethical views (utilitarian, rights theory, socialist accounts) that inform environmental decision making. Another aim is to examine more recent work specific to the environment, such as essays on ""deep ecology,"" ""the land ethic,"" environmental racism,"" and
579	This class, taught in English, will focus on Medieval and Early Modern Spanish poetry, prose and drama. A series of works that are considered canonical masterpieces will be analyzed within the political, social, religious and historical context of the Iberian Peninsula between the years of 1100 and 1650. Selected texts from authors like Juan Ruiz, Quevedo, Gongora, Cervantes and Lope de Vega, among others, will be read in English translation. Does not count towards Spanish major
580	This course analyzes the major modalities of social work treatment with an emphasis on their current use in social work practice and their challenges in research. The course focuses on the importance of various theories and on the integratioon of these into practice.
581	This is the third in a four-part sequence of social work practice courses. It is designed to give the learner an opportunity to understand and apply BSW Generalist Practice as it relates to micro (individuals) and mezzo (families) systems. The course emphasizes the Generalist Intervention Model engagement, assessment/data collection, planning, implementation/intervention, evaluation and termination. The course builds on knowledge, values and skills gained from prior social work classes. Emphasis is placed on working with people from
582	An historical examination across the major world civilizations from the ancient period to the present of the development of slavery. Focus will be upon the causes and sources of slavery, its impact and consequences upon society, attitudes toward slavery, the life of the slave, and abolition.
583	This course explores major issues in political thought through the writings of selected political philosophers.
584	This course provides a forum for observing, analyzing, discussing, and evaluating the effect of images on society. It offers training in visual literacy, the psychology of coding, perceiving and interpreting
585	An upper level course which gives students the opportunity for theoretical analysis and practical application in understanding the relationship between respect for people, performance dimensions, motivation and work behavior. This will be accomplished by studying theories of workplace motivation, methods of performance appraisals and asessing human behavior at work. The course will review current research methodologies, and uses of performance appraisal: goal setting theories; determinants of goal commitment; and the motivationperformance relationship.
586	This course will examine the critical role of human resource management in achieving an organizations's strategic objectives. Emphasis will be placed on techniques for developing a holistic, integrated approach towards the various human resource functions aligned with the organizations's strategy, and comparison and contrast with traditional human resource
587	Development of reading and speaking skills will be emphasized. Grammar and syntax will be reviewed and new material introduced. Emphasis will be placed on increasing both passive and active vocabulary using a wide range of sources including textbooks, literary and journalistic sources, and class discussion.
588	Seniors in the Environmental Studies or Environmental Science track may pursue an independent research project in Environmental Studies or Sciences, under the supervision of a faculty member. Interested students should prepare a written research proposal and solicit the consent of an instructor to serve as mentor. Written permission of the supervising instructor and the Environmental Studies and Sciences Department Head is required.
589	This course is a practical introduction to the aesthetic principles, creative process and technology used to create multi-camera and single camera television programs in the studio and in the field. It also introduces the post-production process and video editing using non-linear softwear along with newly emerging digital technology. This course examines television production methods required for both nonfiction programming such as broadcast news and fiction-based productions. Same as CREA 435. Lab fee.
590	The course examines the history of metropolitan government, from machine politics to reform politics and current governing trends regarding regionalism and privatization. In addition, the course examines policy and ethical issues that racial and economic equality and urban sprawl.
591	This course examines the role of financial markets and institutions in the financial system, including the role of the central bank and effective regulation. Topics include the asymmetric information problem and how markets and intermediaries reduce asymmetric information. This course will cover the following areas: commercial banking and securities markets; interest rates and risk management; central banking, monetary policy; current issues in financial markets and institutions.
592	An in-depth introduction to a computer algebra system. The basic features of the computer algebra system, a study of the embedded functions, programming and graphics will be covered. Emphasis will be on the development of an understanding of the system and the capabilities that will allow for the successful application of the powerful tool to the solution of mamematical and scientific problems. Prerequisite: MATH 120 ATTR: ARTS
593	This course provides an opportunity to explore selected areas of study not in the regular broadcast offerings. Topics vary depending on student and faculty interest. May be taken more than once with different content. A field trip may be required.
594	This academically oriented course will be taught in English and consists of coursework in English followed by an intensive travel study component in Italy. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, student present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost varies
595	Students are acquainted with the process of acting for media that utilize the camera as a principal delivery system through workshop, discussion, observations and viewing and analyzing professional film and broadcast work. Laboratory sessions are devoted to exercises, the preparation of scenes, scenarios and journalistic reports and the exploration of technical skills. This course is designed for students with no previous camera acting or broadcast journalism experience or those with some experience but no training. Lab fee.
596	An advanced management course aimed at providing students with indepth knowledge on the various leadership theories and insight into effective leadership practices. A management versus leadership, trait theories of leadership, behavior theories of leadership, participative leadership and delegation, power and influence, situational leadership, and ""modern"" theories of leadership. Emphasis will also be placed on providing an opportunity to apply the theories in practical business applications.
597	A study of the structure and function of nature with special emphasis on the impact of humans on natural systems. Topics included will be energy flow, nutrient cycles, population dynamics, and community ecology.
598	Examination of the idea of nature in historical and contemporary perspective, including theories of humanity's place in and transformation of the natural world. Some points of emphasis are the legacy of ancient cosmology, the development of the scientific view of nature, modern technology, and current ecological theory. (Same as ENVA-320)
599	This course covers the principles of anatomy, physiology and genetics as applied to human health and disease. Content is focused on four systems: genetics and development, cardiovascular system, neuro-muscular system and digestive system and nutrition. Through study of clinical applications students will understand 1) the biological basis of human diseases, 2) the physiological consequences of disease progression, including treatments and prevention and 3) how to access and use medical and scientific information to investigate questions in human biology. Demonstrations, experiments and readings will support these topics and allow exploration of ethical and other issues relevant to human biology. In addition, all students will take part in a longterm independent investigation of a case study in human health. Not open to biology majors. This course is designed to fulfill part of the School of Science Core requirement for School of Liberal Arts and School of Business students.
600	An introduction into the nature of poetic experience. Technical and structural factors of poetry will be studied in order to deepen appreciation of the genre.
601	This course will examine some of the most well-researched and interesting psychological disorders of childhood and adolescence, including clinical descriptions, DSM-IV diagnostic criteria, and theoretical bases for the explanation and treatment of these disorders. Included will be an overview of some psychosocial contributors to psychological problems of childhood, including child sexual and physical abuse. In addition, the course will cover psychotherapeutic interventions with children and adolescents.
602	This course will cover selected topics at the graduate level. This course may be taken multiple times with different topics. See the sample syllabus for the type of course that might be offered. Examples of topics that could be offered under this course number include but are not limited to: Data Mining, Prescriptive Analytics, Advanced Predictive Analytics, Health Analytics, Portfolio Analytics, Risk Analytics, Security Analytics. Prerequisites: QBUS 550 or GBUS 540 (Same as MACC 545) Prerequiste: QBUS 550
603	A study of the period as affected by the First World War, the Russian Revolution, the rise of Fascism in Italy and Nazism in Germany, the Great Depression, the problems of the
604	An intermediate level studio course exploring the practice, history, and theory of three-dimensional design. Students will study the Elements of Art and Principles of Design, and their use throughout the history of visual art and in contemporary visual material. Prerequisite: CREA-112
605	The advanced course in cyber security covers attack techniques and proactive ways to mitigate risks. Topics include ethical hacking, penetration testing, advance
606	Lecture: A review of classical genetics coupled with an Optional laboratory: Use of the model genetic organisms.
607	An examination of the relation between ethics and politics as interpreted by selected, representative religious thinkers.
608	This course is designed as an introduction to both Classical and Medieval political theory as a discipline and to the political culture of the European West. We will explore an assortment of works, including both conventional and unconventional (or less well-known writers). Our most important goals are to examine how these writers understood themselves and their society, and how that understanding affected ideas about justice, the nature of power, rule, law, and obligation. We will also examine why these works, among others, came to be considered the foundation of Western political thought.
609	This is the Peace Studies Internship for the Washington Semester Program, Peace and Conflict Resolution track. It provides students with a firsthand experience as a member of a staff directly involved in peace building and conflict resolution. The internship will be available with congressional offices, research think tanks and interest groups. Students will work two full days each week of the semester. Student evaluations will be based upon criteria established by academic and office supervisors.
610	A study of the principles and the applications used in operations management. The topics covered include operations strategy, managing for quality, forecasting, project management, supply chain management, and inventory management.
611	This course examines specific topics in the fields of public policy and public administration. Credits for this course will be applied to the Political Science major's Public Policy & Administration track. This course can be taken more than once for credit, depending on the content of the specific course.
612	This course is designed to expose students to special topics not included in the normal course offerings. The subject will be announced before the semester in which the course is offered.
613	The significant impact of society's energy needs on the environment will be examined. The course will cover our society's different sources of energy (fossil fuel, nuclear, hydropower, solar, etc), discussing how each is obtained, and giving their advantages and limitations. The use of energy in the future will also be explored, as some present sources run out and new ones become practical. The basis of climate will be developed, and students will learn how changes to Earth's atmosphere and oceans affect human civilations and natural ecosystems. Each week one or more group or demonstration experiments will be performed, to illustrate concepts.
614	This course, which considers the theory and practice of effective instructional practices in diverse classrooms,will focus on the components of instruction and will be practiceoriented and performance-based. Emphasis will be given to the understanding and application of the New York State Learning Standards in inclusive subject area classrooms. Such topics as unit planning and lesson planning, motivation inclusion, diversity, teacher expectations,questioning skill feedback strategies, methodology, technologies, and evaluation and assessment will be studied. Students will develop and practice behaviors and strategies characteristic of effective teaching using culturally relevant pedagogies. Students will examine their own ""identity story"" and the impacts of bias in the classrooms.
615	An examination of the moral experience, moral character, and moral discernment, as well as an analysis of the principles and procedures used in the Western religious traditions to adjudicate crucial moral issues such as: sexual morality, medical ethics, race relations, and moral judgements about warfare. analysis. After exploring global issues during the first half of the semester, we will consider domestic problems in the United States. The course aims to educate students about current affairs from the perspective of Catholic traditions on social justice as well as to refine their analytical skills in applied moral theology. Prerequisite: one disciplinary course in religious studies. Offered at least once every two years.
616	This course introduces the structural, physical, and chemical properties of polymeric macromolecules, the thermodynamic and kinetic properties that govern their various features. The synthesis and characterization of these molecules will be investigated. This course will emphasizes many of the various techniques of regulating polymerization.
617	The course will provide a basic background in chemical principles and processes in the context of their role in environmental issues. Topics to be discussed include ozone depletion, acid rain, global warming, and general uses and misuses of our natural resources. The goal of the course is to enable students as informed consumers to critically evaluate scientific issues which have a crucial impact on our world. Not open to Biology or Chemistry majors.
618	Students perform an independent study on a chemistry topic of their choice. The project requires approval of the faculty mentor and may involve curriculum development or laboratory improvement. The course culminates in a written
619	This course provides a survey of mathematical techniques used in common business applications. Mathematical technique central to the understanding of finance and derivative calculus will be introduced, with emphasis placed on the interpretation of contextual solutions encountered in many areas of business. Applications include financial valuation, elementary modelling, and optimization through the examination of rates of change.
620	This course is designed to introduce students to the basic scientific methods, tools and techniques needed to understand and analyze environmental issues. Topics covered include ecosystem structure and function, population dynamics and regulation, resources and resource management, and pollution. The laboratory will include projects dealing with current environmental issues, and will emphasize hypothesis testing, data collection and analysis, and oral and written presentations. Several field trips (including one weekend trip) will introduce students to local ecosystems and to local environmental issues. Lab fee.
621	A study of ecological processes in tropical ecosystems, emphasizing the ecology of tropical rainforests. The laboratory portion of the course will involve two weeks of
622	Methods of computer simulation and its diverse applications are introduced. The course is project-oriented; projects include the motion of massive and charged particles, chaotic systems, and random systems. Methods include the numerical solution of differential equations, fast Fourier transforms, and Monte Carlo techniques. Two hours of lecture and three
623	This course will examine the American War in Vietnam (1965-1975) through major literary works written by both American and Vietnamese authors. Emphasis is placed on situating the literature within the historical context.
624	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Management at an introductory level with no prequisites. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. This course is not intended for students within the School of Business and may not be taken for credit by students enrolled in a major offered by the School of Business. School of Arts and School of Science students may take this course for elective credit only. It may be taken more than once with different content. 
625	Independent study under faculty supervision in the area of multimedia design. Independent Study courses provides students with in-depth learning opportunities that involve private consultation with the advisor and independent research. Independent Studies require a proposal approved by the faculty member, the Department Chair, and the Dean.
626	An introduction to philosophy focusing on various themes pertaining to human existence. The subjects treated include knowledge, community, beauty, love, freedom, justice. Also, examined are questions concerning body and the soul, the meaning of life and death, and the individual's relation to God. the figure of socrates is prominent, but philosophers from a varity of historical periods and traditions are also studied.
627	A thorough review of the structures of the French language, supplemented by selected readings. Emphasis will be placed
628	This beginning course is designed for students with no background in Spanish. The main objective is to help you achieve a beginner's level of proficiency in Spanish. It will emphasize the development of practical communication skills through a variety of interactive activities and the study of basic grammar structures. Besides listening comprehension, reading, writing and pronunciation skills, the course will focus on the diverse cultures of the Spanish-speaking countries around the world and the Spanish-speaking people living in the United States.
629	Honors level of the HIST 101 course. At the seminar level, this course provides students with an introduction to the discipline and methodologies of history through study of the West to non-Western societies in the contemporary world. Attention is focused on understanding the unique events and trends of the 20th and 21st centuries and their political, social, economic literary, and artistic antecedents in the
630	This course explores the political, social, cultural geographical, and economic expansion of the United States from the end of the War of 1812 to the sectional crisis over the Kansas territory in 1854. Students will analyze major themes including race, class, gender, immigration, social reform, nationalism, and sectionalism.
631	Newtonian mechanics of particles and systems of particles, including rigid bodies. Topics include vector analysis, potential theory, central forces, the two-body problem, collisions, oscillatory phenomena, moving reference frames. Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulation of classical
632	Gateway to Health Studies is an introduction to the various disciplines and tracks within the healthcare field, with emphasis on careers and hot topics in health studies. In particular, students will be introduced to the principles and vocabulary used in the study and practice of health sciences, health policy and healthcare administration. This class provides students with the opportunity to begin to develop some of the foundational skills (communication, critical thinking and problem solving) that are important learning outcomes for the Health Studies major. Further, it provides students with an introduction to engagement activities (undergraduate research, service, and experiential learning) that will help position students for the future.
633	Continuation of GERM --340.
634	A study of the basic topics in psychology that lay the foundation for courses leading to a major in psychology and are relevant to assisting students in understanding themselves and others. This course is recommended to students seeking an elective in psychology and as the initial course for psychology majors.
635	This laboratory is required for students enrolled in BIOL-110 and BIOL-170 lectures. Lab work includes experiments designed to illustrate basic biological concepts. Emphases include developing and testing hypotheses and writing laboratory reports. Lab fee.
636	A study in English of the Greco-Roman myths that deal with the heroes and heroines of the Greek royal houses, of the Trojan War, of the journey home; the legends involving Theseus, Heracles, Perseus, and Jason; certain local traditions of myths; the transformation of the Greek heroic tradition among the Romans, in particular that of the Trojan Aeneas; theoretical perspectives will be used to understand ancient conceptions of heroism and how they have influenced the later tradition.
637	This course is desinged as an analysis of political institutions in Western Europe. Topics to be addressed include the impact of the welfare state and dilemmas of governing in post-modern and post-industrial socities, as well as problems of race and ethnicity. Some familiarity with parliamentary systems or other political cultures would be a helpful background for interested students.
638	An introductory course establishing comparative models of political systems focusing upon socio-political organization, political socialization, decision-making and
639	This class investigates the concepts of community, social justice, change and development in and through community-based consulting projects with nonprofit organizations. This course examines the role business consulting plays in addressing pressing nonprofit
640	The significant impact of society's energy needs on the environment will be examined. Each week one or more group or demonstration experiments will be done. These will emphasize that scientific truth is deductedfrom experiments and is ultimately dependent on experiment verification and consistency. Students will use/observe actual scientific methods, techniques, instrumentation, make logical deductions, develop trial hypotheses, and do error analysis. Not open to Physics majors.
641	Entrepreneurship and New Venture Creation 3 credits. An introductory course concentrating on how new venture opportunities are identified and assessed. Special attention is given to exploring the unique role of entrepreneurship and innovation in society. Course content focuses both on understanding the historical, social, and ethical context of entrepreneurship and in seeking, assessing and developing new venture opportunities. Students will learn alternative approaches to finding new venture opportunities and assessing the
642	Environmental Chemistry, is the study of natural and anthropogenic substances in the environment. Specifically, the course will cover the source, transport, reactions, effects and fate of chemicals in the atmosphere, hydrosphere and lithosphere. The course will also examine the distribution and interaction of chemical substances these semiempirical, and particulary av initio computational
643	This course considers the objectives and strategies of international business in the context of global competition. It equips managers with a comprehensive framework to formulate strategies and influence in the global marketplace in ways that maximize economic, social, and environmental sustainability. Students will consider and analyze topics such as competitive advantage, country assessment and selection, why firms choose to internationalize, and how the various value chain operations can be internationalized. Considerations of managing international business operations include the role of supranational institutions such as the IMF and WTO and regional cooperation agreements. Students will study the principles of multinational business management and strategy, explore the fundamental differences among developed and developing countries, and analyze the forces driving international business trends.
644	This course provides a systematic analysis of a range of social welfare policies and programs and their impact on individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities Through the use of analytical and experiential learning, emphasis is placed on developing policy practice skills to promote social and economic justice, equality, equity and human rights within the context of political, legislative and community processes.
645	Laboratory or field research of an original nature under the direction of a faculty member. Arranged by mutual consent of student and faculty member. Credit for independent research may be earned in more than one semester. Normally taken for 2 credits, but may be taken for 1 or 3 credits with approval of department head. Attendance at all departmental colloquia
646	The reform of western Christianity in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries as Europe moved from the medieval to the modern world. Special attention will be paid to significant figures such as Luther, Calvin and Ignatius Loyola.
647	Regression Analysis and Statistical Models encompass essential statistical techniques that have vast applications in any field that involves data. This course introduces simple, multiple, and polynomial regression models, in addition to generalized linear models. Additional topics include correlation, collinearity, model building, model adequacy, and residual analysis, amond others.
648	A study of processor, memory, device, and information management of contemporary computer systems. Emphasis is placed on the models and algorithms for multi-programming computer operating systems. Discussion will include classic problems such as the concurrency problems of mutual exclusion, deadlock and synchronization, and memory management concepts such as paging, working set and segmentation. The laboratory includes an introduction to
649	Modern approaches to its various uses, including investment aspects of life insurance, types of contracts, the beneficiary clause and settlement options. Includes analysis of the life and health insurance contracts, types and organization of companies, investment policy, underwriting and marketing, and rate-marketing principles and techniques,
650	This course will cover selected topics at the graduate level. This course may be taken multiple times with different topics. See the sample syllabus for the type of course that might be offered. Examples of topics that could be offered under this course number include but are not limited to: Data Mining, Prescriptive Analytics, Advanced Predictive Analysis, Health Analytics, Portfolio Analytics, Risk Analytics and Security Analytics.
651	Consideration of a mathematical topic selected on the basis of faculty and student interest. Designed for students with good mathematical backgrounds. May be taken twice with different topic. Permission of instructor or department required for registration. Offered Spring Semester.
652	The course examines contemporary issues, structures, and other relationships of international relations (may be taken more than once with different content). Consult Fall and Spring schedules for specific topics. An additional fee may be required, depending on the course offered.
653	This course is a practical examination of reporting for radio and television outlets including cable. Students practice covering actual news events first for radio and then for television. They gain actual experience in the field with those skills they learn in the prerequisite course. Introduction to Broadcast Journalism, including interviewing, developing stories, and broadcast news writing. Further, students will learn to use a tape recorder and edit audio for their radio reports. They will also learn to shoot news video and edit video stories for use on the college's cable channel. Students will be introduced to the concepts of performance for broadcast reporting. Same as CREA 360. Lab fee.
654	To increase proficiency in speaking Arabic and deepening the understanding of cultural realities. This course is for students who have completed the equivalent of four semesters of college Arabic. 
655	A survey of East Asian history with emphasis on the political, economic, social, and cultural development of China, Japan and Korea: since 1600.
656	Machine learning is the subfield of artificial intelligence that uses data mining and statistical pattern recognition to ""learn"" algorithms to classify data, make predictions and solve data intense problems. Topics include: Supervised learning using regression, support vector machines, and neural networks; Unsupervised learning including clustering, dimensionality reduction, and recommender systems. Students will engage in handson activities to design and implement learning algorithms and systems for solving problems in areas such as robotics, text understanding, computer vision, medical informatics, database mining, and other areas.
657	Supply Chain Management is a system approach in managing the entire flow of information, materials, and services from raw material suppliers through supply chain entities to the end customer. Emphasis is placed on supply chain challenges related to providing logistical support for procurement, manufacturing and marketing-distribution. The course will focus on supply chain strategy, logistics information systems, segmental positioning, order management and fulfillment, inventory, forecasting and collaborative planning. In addition, the course will focus on morei operational issues related to transportation, third party logistics, warehousing, materials handling, international logistics, and facility network design.
658	A study of a specialized topic in one of the fields of Religious Studies, which include historical studies, scriptural studies, religious thought (theology and ethics), and world religions. The selected subject matter is announced in the schedule of course offerings in semesters when it is offered. Students may repeat this course for credit provided the selected subject matter has not been previously taken for credit. An additional fee may be charged depending on the topic offered.
659	This course will give the prospective teacher sustained experience in the middle school classroom. In addition to teaching, the student is expected to assume other professional responsibilities that are assigned to him/her by the cooperating teacher and/or principal. It is expected that student teachers will gradually add teaching
660	A study of art in the United States from the seventeenth to the twentieth century considering both the European influence and American styles. Small group field trips to local/regional historic houses and museums are required.
661	Robotics is a subfield of artificial intelligence that utilizes technology to complete tasks that humans would normally complete. This course is an introduction to robotics, with an emphasis on mobile robots operating in human-scale environments. Students will gain an understanding of the basic theory and practice of mobile robots and human-machine interaction. Topics include: Robot Operating System (ROS), Open Source Computer Vision(OpenCV), Client/Server Communication, the Linux Operating System and the Python Programming Language. Students will work in teams to implement a challenging robotic task.
662	Advanced study in the area of investment management with the emphasis on analysis of modern portfolio theories and advanced investment strategies. This course takes a quantitative approach in the decision-making process and requires an oral and written presentation of computer based 
663	A study of several major Shakespearean plays. The works will be analyzed against the background of Shakespeare's life and times. Same as ENGL 240. Students will explore compelling issues of the era of Queen Elizabeth I such as images of the self, the myth of the Golden Age, and the controversy over gender roles. Readings will be selected from writers such as Sir Thomas More, Edmund Spenser, Philip and Mary Sidney, and Queen
664	A survey of the origins and development of the American Revolution and the United States from the British imperial crisis of the 1760s through the conclusion of the War of 1812. Topics will include the political, social, and economic causes of the American Revolution, the military
665	A continuation of CHEM-210 with emphasis on the functional group chemistry of aromatics, alcohols, ethers, carbonyl compounds, carboxylic acids and their derivatives, and bioorganic molecules. Resonance theory, conjugation, aromaticity, multistep organic syntheses, and reaction mechanism are explored in detail. Functional group chemistry and multi step syntheses are stressed in the laboratory, along with spectroscopic and chromatographic analysis of products. Three hours of lecture and four hours of laboratory each week. Lab fee.
666	This course introduces students to methods of historical analysis. Students will learn essential skills that are required for the successful completion of research and writing intensive assignments in other History courses. They will learn how to locate, utilize, and evaluate historical resources as well as follow guidelines for proper citation and attribution in historical writing. This course also examines the discipline of history. Students will learn how historians make history and discuss ethical issues related to historical research, writing and presentation. It cannot be taken concurrently with HIST 499. Permission of Instructor required.
667	This course is designed for students who are pursuing a career in one of the medical fields. In this course students will learn the following: basic Spanish grammar and vocabulary applicable to a broad range of medical situations; to ask basic medical questions in Spanish and to compile a complaint history; the medical terminology of body parts and systems of the body in Spanish; appropriate protocols and cultural norms that apply when treating people from a variety of Spanish
668	This course will awarded to School of Business students others are completion of CSIS-010 or CSIS-011. Similarly, this serves as one possible prerequisite to certain CSIS and
669	An examination of the stances and attitudes toward nature and the environment taken by several religious communities. The course will assist students to develop a constructive assessment of the theological and ethical contributions religious communities can make to environmental studies.
670	A survey of the social, cultural, and political development of Rome from its foundation to the fall of the Empire.
671	An historical and systematic examination of key elements of the Catholic tradition, e.g., tradition, sacrament, ministry, papacy, and spirituality. Contemporary issues such as the relationship between Catholicism and politics and the dialogue between Catholicism and world religions will also
672	By expanding the student's understanding of the financial system to include an international perspective, this course introduces the student to the role of international considerations within the development of corporate policy. This course examines the determination of exchange rates and operation of exchange markets. The application of these ideas will be extended to the firm's management of foreign exchange exposure, cash management, and capital budgeting. Multinational banking and political risk management will also be studied.
673	An interdisciplinary course in the sciences, taught through lecture and laboratory, with the emphasis on learning by discovery. Topics covered include the nature of energy and matter, processes of change in the universe, and the evolution of life. Lab Fee.
674	This course will explore literary topics not normally treated in regular upper-level English courses. Specific topics will be announced during the semester previous to that in which the course will be offered. May be taken with different topics.
675	This is an advanced level reading and discussion seminar that also serves as the capstone course for the Educational Studies Minor. In this course, students will explore their designated areas of concentration in depth, develop a substantial paper based on this interest and present it to the campus community. Students will also learn about educational research methods and current issues in educational studies. These course topics will vary depending on the areas of concentration of enrolled students, who will help to co-develop portions of the syllabus to align with their research interests. Enrollment in this course is limited to students who have completed at least 12 of the 18 hours required for the Educational Studies Minor (i.e. students may be concurrently enrolled in one other education course while
676	An introduction to the art and craft of mathematical problem solving. Students interact in a seminar setting, discussing and solving interesting mathematical problems. Oral presentations of problems and solutions are a required
677	This course is designed for students who have taken advanced placement biology in high school and achieved a score of 4 or higher on the AP exam. Topics include evolution, classification, and diversity. Students enrolled in this course will choose from the same laboratory sections as those in BIOL-110. Not open to students who have
678	Once available only in supercomputers, parallel hardware is now pervasive, right down to our personal computers and mobile devices. To harness the full power of these computers programmers must understand parallel processing, which introduces challenges at many levels. This course examines methods and techniques to support parallel programming in a variety of parallel computing environments, performance analysis, effciency and complexity of parallel algorithms, and applications of parallel computation.
679	A survey of the synthetic theory of organic evolution. Major topics include: historical development of evolutionary thought, population genetics, speciation mechanisms, and adaptation. Basic evolutionary theory will be complemented with a review of empirical evidence relating to the evolutionary processes in both natural and experimental populations.Topics in human evolution will be covered which include: the origin of man, evolution of bipedalism, and tool use.
680	A study of the aesthetics and mechanics of designing scenery for the stage. Students will utilize design, drafting and presentation skills developed in class to create scene renderings, evaluations, models and working drawings based on the interpretation of a theatrical script. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as professional production is required. Lab Fee.
681	This course awards academic credit to eligible students for the laboratory exploration of theatrical process as directors in the production program. The number of credits awarded will be determined in advance by the Program faculty on the basis of workload and the degree of difficulty of the assignment. A satisfactory written report practicum journal, and participation in the production program will determine the final grade. CREA-450-454 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any one semester. A field trip
682	This course surveys historical and contemporary theories of human and animal learning. The psychological study of learning is traced as it has developed over the past 100 years. Among the earlier theorists surveyed are Thorndike, Pavlov, Guthrie, Hull, and Tolman. The more recent theories of Skinner and Bandura are given extended treatment. Current perspectives from cognitive science and neurophysiology are also reviewed. A general theme of this course is demonstrate the relevance of each learning theory to matters of practical human importance. This course provides background that is of special relevance to individuals interested in education, child development, counseling, and clinical psychology.
683	The study of those socially constructed institutions, beliefs, and conditions that result in differential outcomes within various populations in countries around the world. The course employs appropriate sociological theories and methodologies as it addresses not only the cause of social problems, but also their interrelationship with other problems as well as possible solutions.
684	This academically oriented course will be taught in Italian and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in Italy. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-
685	A study of the life and teachings of Jesus and of the community founded in his name, with special attention to the available historical sources; a literary, historical, and theological examination of the four gospels.
686	This course will be taught with varying subject content. It deals with topics that cross normal departmental boundaries. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. School of Science students may take this course for elective credit only. It may be taken more than once with different content. 
687	An examination of religious thought--thoelogy and ethics--in the Western traditions of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. an exploration of ways religious individuals and communities understand the divine, human experience, and the world.
688	This course focuses on the skills needed to be an effective communicator and collaborator in an international business environment. Students will craft and deliver messages for diverse audiences using a variety of written and oral presentation formats, lead discussions, and practice interpersonal communication approaches used to manage difficult conversations. Students will also apply the guidelines for building high-performing teams and lead a team meeting.
689	Internship opportunities not covered by departmental areas. Permission of Dean required. 
690	This internship provides students with practical experience in a professional media environment. Performance at the host media company, in addition to a satisfactory written report and an internship journal will determine the final grade. CREA-481 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any one semester.
691	This course is an historical survey of American literature of the Twentieth century, which includes a broad range of significant writers in poetry, prose, and drama. Writers will be analyzed within an historical and cultural context.
692	This introductory course orients the student to the professional field of education and schooling in the United States. Issues researched and discussed include but are not limited to the following: history and philosophy of education; purpose and role of public education; rights and responsibilities of all educational stakeholders; governance at the local, state, and federal level; and interactions among the school, home, and community that support and enhance student learning. In particular, this course will explore the issue of educational access, emphasizing student diversity within the full range of disabilities and special (transportation is the responsibility of each student). For students pursuing Siena's certification sequence, the field experience must be at the secondary level (grades 7-12).
693	This course begins with the Celtic invasion of Ireland and proceeds through the recent attempts to create a lasting peace settlement in Northern Ireland. Along the way it examines the lasting influence of the Celtic, Viking, Norman, and English invasions of Ireland. This course focuses on political, cultural, social, and religious history as a way of understanding the many factors that have shaped Irish history. In addition, this course will address the relationship between Ireland and the Irish Diaspora. It discuss Ireland's changing place in the world, its role in the British Empire, and its participation in the European Union.
694	A critical examination of the intersection of social categories based on race, ethnicity, and gender in contemporary societies. This course will explore the intersection of these categories in regards to wealth, power, and social status. It also will cover topics such as prejudice, discrimination, and racism in society. ATTR: (AMSB, ARTS, JMN, MCCP, WSTU)
695	A survey of operatic styles and major composers principally from early to modern opera geared to those students who are just beginning, or who have not yet begun, to take an interest in opera as well as for those who desire to know more about an art form they already enjoy. There is a required field trip.
696	This course is designed to introduce students to the theory and practice of interpreting ecological and aesthetic values of the natural world to the visiting public. Emphasis is placed on interpretation of natural and cultural resources and informal education in an outdoor setting. Both individually and in groups, students will plan and present interpretive materials using written, oral, and visual methods of informative and persuasive communication. At least one Saturday field trip will be required.
697	An introduction to computational physics. Numerical methods will be used to model and simulate a variety of physical systems. One three-hour laboratory session per week. Lab fee. 
698	Forensic psychology is a cutting-edge interdisciplinary arena that spans the fields of psychology, sociology, law, criminal justice, and public policy, among others. Forensic psychology unites various areas of clinical psychology, with its emphasis on psychopathology (e.g., the insanity defense) and psychological assessment (e.g., the use of assessment devices in determinations of competence and in child custody evaluations) and social psychology, with its body of literature on psychological phenomena salient to legal processes (e.g., interpersonal persuasion, the reliability of memory in eyewitnesses, psychological factors relevant to jury selection, the detection of lying) with the theory and practice of law. As a profession, the subspecialty of forensic psychology prepares psychologists to interact with the legal arena in a variety of roles, including expert witness, child custody evaluator, determiner of mental competence and dangerousness of criminal defendants, police psychologist, prison psychologist, and consultant to military, federal, state, and local law enforce-
699	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Management at an intermediate level. Prerequisite course may be required. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. It may be taken more for credit multiple times for different topics. 
700	This course provides a general introduction to Matlab, a versatile and powerful programming language and environment which is widely used by engineers, physicists, mathematicians, and other professionals. The course will cover topics such as variables, arrays, expressions, scripts functions, basic input and output operations, and Matlab visualization tools, as well as basic computer programming techniques such as loops, conditional statements, and how to identify and fix programming errors.
701	An intermediate-level examination of Classical and Keynesian models of income determination, post-Keynesian thought and the Monetarist alternative, and the problems of
702	An examination of bases, advantages and problems of international trade from the perspective of classical, neoclassical and modern theories. Key topics include determinants of the gains from trade, changes in income distribution resulting from trade, the rationale and consequences of commercial policies (e.g.tariffs, quotas and subsidies) and industrial policies designed to enhance the trade competitiveness of trading economies. Emphasis is placed on the consequences of income distribution from trade and, therefore, on questions of equity and efficiency.
703	A survey of contempory writings in the chemical sciences designed to acquaint students with recent advances in the field and with the progression of chemical thought. Students enrolled in this course will choose from the same laboratory sections as those in
704	This course provides a forum for observing, analyzing, discussing and writing about the aesthetics of film. This course also teaches the basics of film criticism and reveals how film criticism affects the making and remaking of film
705	Intensive review of grammar and syntax, supplemented by A continuation of GERM-201
706	This course provides field experience in religiously oriented work and programs such as those carried out in a pastoral care department, a religious service agency, a campus ministry, or a consultation center. The internship will provide for a minimum of 120 hours during the semester on the basis of a mutually satisfactory Learning Agreement agreed to by both the Department Faculty Internship Advisor and the student in consultation with the Field Supervisor. The student will be graded by Siena's Internship Faculty Advisor in the Religious Studies Department with substantial input from the Internship Supervisor in the field. Internships are restricted to junior and senior students.
707	This course will introduce the formal and narrative study of film. We will focus on film history, the technology of film production, and the methodology of film studies as an academic discipline. Through screenings, readings, discussion, and writing, students will develop a formal and aesthetic appreciation of film, and acquire a general awareness of film history and its key movements from its beginnings as a black and white silent art form to the contemporary global digital age. We will pay particular attention to the cultural, political, and economic contexts from which it emerges. This course is a requirement of the Film Studies Minor and it is highly recommended, but not required, as a prerequisite for other Film Minor courses.
708	The development of the American West from its role in the Anglo-French conflict for empire to the official closing of the frontier by the census of 1890.
709	This course examines how firms make effective financial management decisions in an uncertain, multinational environment. Students will learn how to determine financing needs, evaluate financing alternatives and assess the impact of financing decisions on the cost of capital. Students will apply a consistent valuation methodology to multinational firms, assess alternatives for firms to return value to shareholders and apply options analysis to capital budgeting decisions. Prerequisite: FINC 550
710	This course is designed to help the professional explore, select and model large quantities of data to uncover novel patterns and new insight into mature business processes. Students will learn when and how to use various mining techniques from large datasets chosen from the accounting, finance and marketing areas. Topics may include forecasting, clustering, nearest neighborhood classification and regression, principal component analyses and factor analyses. Topics are expected to change as the discipline continues to redefine itself.
711	Field study experience in subject areas covered by the departments of Accounting, Economics, Finance, and Marketing/Management. Students will explore career opportunities and field work experience related to their major field of study, working 120 to 150 hours per semester for each 3-credit internship. Students will be graded on a pass/fail basis. Students will be required to maintain a field experience journal, attend scheduled classroom seminars, and complete a final report or project. BUDV-482 may be taken twice for a maximum of 6 credits, which do not count toward credits earned in a student's major field of
712	A survey of operatic styles and major composers principally from early to modern opera geared to those students who are just beginning, or who have not yet begun, to take an interest in opera as well as for those who desire to know more about an art form they already enjoy. There is a required field trip.
713	This course consists of reading selections from representative authors of Classical Greek, for students who have completed elementary Greek.
714	A survey of the historical and religious development of those churces which belong in the tradition of Eastern Christianity and the contributions which churches of the Eastern tradition make to Christianity in the contemporary world.
715	This course focuses on wave phenomena and statistical physics. Topics are emphasized that provide a foundation for
716	A survey of German history and culture from the Age of the Revolution to the Weimar Republic.
717	This course examines various aspects of science from a philosophical perspective. Topics may include: scientific explanation; causation; induction, confirmation and underdetermination; realism and the nature of theories; scientific change and rationality; and science, culture, and society. Thinkers to be considered may include Hempel,
718	Political and cultural development of modern France from the French Revolution to the present.
719	The major focus of this course will be on the nature, needs, and characteristics of the adolescent learner, as well as the philosophy, curriculum, and pedagogy (including methods and materials) appropriate for middle-level education in New York State. This course will address diverse instructional strategies, including interdisciplinary teaching, teaming, and cooperative learning. Successful middle-level educational programs, which focus on and promote both the intellectual and personal development of the early adolescent, will be examined. A twenty-hour field experience is required at the middle school or junior high school level (transportation is the responsibility of each student).
720	A study in English of the Greco-Roman myths that treat the origin of the world, the generations of the gods, the creation of the human race, and the relationship between mortals and immortals. Also examined will be ancient notions of worship, including the importance of sacrifice and mystery cults. Different, contemporary, theoretical perspectives will be employed to interpret the meaning conveyed by these stories both for the ancients and for the modern world and to evaluate their force in the development of Greek and Roman culture, literature, and art and their
721	A one-semester course in film studies taught periodically by faculty from the Schools of Liberal Arts, Science, or Business. Each time it is offered the course will focus on a single theme-for example, War in American Films, Horror from the 50's and 60's, The Western, and Film Noir-or on Akira Kurasowa. Combines theoretical, literary and historical studies with critical viewings of films. May be taken twice for credit under different themes.
722	This course examines British culture from the postmodern and contemporary era. By drawing on historic, political, and aesthetic concerns, this class may consider multiple genres of literature, but also emphasize how other arts shape what it means to have a British identity. Film, visual arts, popular music, and other cultural productions may be studied as primary or secondary sources in order to bolster a broader sense of how to understand the role of Britishness in the contemporary world. Readings will be taken from a variety of backgrounds and may include authors from the United Kingdom or Anglophone writers who reflect on the sordid legacy of the British Empire.
723	Interns work in historical societies, museums, resource centers, etc. (The evaluation of such credit is made by the staff of the participating institution and the Director.) Open to second semester juniors and seniors who have completed a minimum of 12 credit hours in history, including U.S. history, and who present at least a 3.0 GPA in the American Studies Program is required. (Crosslisted as HIST-480)
724	This course is a systematic study of the nature and causes human social behavior and will focus on the theories and methods that have been developed primarily by sociologists to help understand everyday social life. It examines such topics as socialization, development of the self, gender roles, social interaction and interpersonal relationships, conformity and deviance, self-presentation and impression formation, leadership, and inter-personal processes such as cooperation, conformity and confict.
725	A study of the taxonomy, morphology, and evolution of the vertebrates. Emphasis will be placed on the nature of evolutionary processes and the resulting modifications in vertebrate morphology and function. The laboratory involves the detailed dissection of representative vertebrates. Lab fee.
726	This course is designed to develop the student's understanding of the structure and function of our banking system and the role of monetary policy in determining economic activity. Topics included are: the nature of money, the term structure of interest rates, the regulation of commercial bank activity, and the macro-monetary models used to predict future economic conditions. Same as ECON-210.
727	This course explores political, economic, socio-cultural, and structural factors that have intensified ethnic, religious, and tribal conflict, extreme poverty, and a legacy of authoritarianism. The propogation of the global oil trade and the consequences for marginalized and poor communities, and women and minorities in the region, will
728	This course cover the synthesis, characterization and physical properties of organic compounds. Multistep synthesis of complex targets of current interest will be discussed, including aspects of chemo-, regioand stereoselectivity. The course will also cover the characterization of organic molecules including NMR, mass spectroscopy, chromatography, thermal analysis and other spectroscopic and physical methods. In the laboratory acterize organic compounds and materials.
729	This course will introduce students to the concepts of anatomy and physiology of the human body. This course is a systematic integration of the structure and function of the cells, tissues, organs, and systems of the body. It is primarily designed for those students preparing for a career in Nursing. The lab will be offered utilizing a hybrid instructional method. Biology majors may not use this course to fulfill requirements for the Biology major or minor. ATTR: Arts
730	This course covers the field of Nutrition in the context of Public Health. Students will learn about the chemistry and biological action of nutrients and how health policies seek to promote optimal nutritional health for both individuals and whole populations. Course activities will allow students to improve their science literacy, critical thinking, and communication skills by applying what they learn to current issues and events. This course is required for all Health Studies majors. Prerequisite: BIOL 110 ATTR: Arts
731	An advanced Finance course designed to outline theories and techniques for effective financial decision-making and for the assessment of these decisions on performance. Specifically the course develops tools for effective capital budgeting and financing decision-making, and for firm valuation. Special attention will be paid to developing a comprehensive approach to solving financial
732	The management of human capital is extremely important to an organization's competitiveness and sustainability. This course will examine the role of human resource development in maintaining an organization's competitive position. Students will learn how to assess employee needs, and develop programs to successfully transfer training to workplace practices and outcomes. This is a required course for Management students pursuing a Human Resource Management track and students pursuing a concentration in Strategic Human Resources Management. It is also a Management elective open to all Siena students.
733	This course explores various aspects of sports writing and reporting on an advanced level for students who have already completed the introductory course in sports writing and reporting. Students work individually and in teams to create professional-caliber stories and assist in production of the College's ESPN3 programming. Students are assigned readings that illustrate advanced sports reporting techniques, and learn to craft hard news stories as well as feature reports and profile pieces that illustrate a sophisticated understanding of journalistic writing skills and shooting and editing techniques. Students create content under deadline pressure that conforms to legal and professional ethical standards. Prerequisite: JOUR 310.
734	This course provides advanced hands-on exploration for students assisting in the production of Siena College sporting events and programs aired over ESPN3. Students will learn sophisticated shooting, editing, writing, interviewing and post-production skills and techniques. Students will perform advanced production tasks in the Athletic Department's mobile production unit.
735	This course is a study of quantitative methods and tools for graduate business students. Topics will include the following: Descriptive and graphical data analysis, applied probability, statistical inference, sampling and regression analysis. Other advanced statistical techniques may be included in consonance with current practice. Appropriate technology will be used in helping students to analyze statistics and make appropriate decisions based on data.
736	Taught in seminar style and drawing from social work, Franciscan, and other related perspectives, students will explore how loss and grief interrelate with nature and the natural world. Within the spectrum of diversity based on gender, age, race, ethnicity, culture, disability, religion and spirituality, social class, and through the broader context of scientific methods of inquiry, students will critically analyze quantitatively and qualitatively based models pertaining to stages/phases of grief and loss.
737	The political, social, economic, and cultural history of the state of New York from the pre-Columbian era to the present.
738	This course will explore advanced science topics, often interdisciplinary in nature not covered in regular course offerings. Topics are selected on the basis of faculty and student interests. Pre-requisites depend on the topics being offered and course registration requires permission of the instructor. This couse may be taken more than once with
739	This course provides the opportunity to explore changing trends and challenges in America's schools, to address current issues affecting education, educational issues on the national agenda, state and national initiatives, and/or important developments in areas such as curriculum instruction, urban education, assessment, or technology. The topic is one not normally investigated in depth in existing courses. This course may be taken more than once with different content. Offered as needed 1 to 3 credits, depending on the topic. ciples, methods, and strategies useful in planning, designdesign, and prepare a proposal that incorporates principles of research. The proposal will, when the opportunity permits, be translated into an empirical study.
740	Criminalistics is a branch of forensic science that involves the recognition, identification, individualization, evaluation and reconstruction of 'physical evidence"". The purpose of this one-semester, laboratory-based course is to acquaint the student with the philosophy and methodology of dealing with physical evidence in a gereral way. No attempt will be made to provide the student with all the techniques he or she will need to know to work in a forensic science laboratory. Instead, the general approach is designed to give the student a sound, fundamental base upon which to build. The laboratory aspect of this course will consist mainly of work on unknowns designed to simulate physical evidence problems and to stimulate thinking about them. Select pieces of SAInT Center instrumentation will be introduced. The lecture part of the course will provide much of the theoretical knowledge required to complete the exercises. There are no prerequisites, but it is suggested that the student be familiar with high-school mathematics (algebra, geometry, and trigonometry). 3 hr lecture, 4 hr laboratory.
741	This course treats industrialization and social change, the emergence of socialism and worker's movements, political and economic liberalism, German and Italian unification, Social Darwinism, and European imperialism. Prerequisite: HIST-101, or HIST 102, or HIST-103, or HIST-104, or HIST-105 or HIST-190.
742	This course explores the differentiating conditions in management associated with conducting business in multiple countries. It examines several facets of the global business environment including differences across nations, global trade and investment, regional trade blocs, NGOs and supranational organizations, the global monetary system, strategy in international business, and international business functions. Emphasis will be placed on the practical and theoretical aspects of starting and/or running a global multinational firm. Prerequisite: MGMT-201 or MRKT-334.
743	This course is a practical examination of reporting for radio and television outlets including cable. Students practice covering actual news events first for radio and then for television. They gain actual experience in the field with those skills they learn in the prerequisite course, Introduction to Broadcast Journalism, including interviewing, developing stories, and broadcast news writing. Further, students will learn to use a tape recorder and edit audio for their radio reports. They will also learn to shoot news video and edit video stories for use on the college's cable channel. Students will be introduced to the concepts of performance for broad-
744	This interdisciplinary course introduces students to the geology, flora and fauna, history, literature, and environmental politics of New York's Adirondack Mountains. Following a historical survey, the course looks at contemporary environmental policy issues: acid rain, second home development, invasive species, over-use of popular areas, among
745	A study of the vertebrates with an emphasis on evolution, ecology and behavior. While all classes of vertebrates are examined, fishes, reptiles and amphibians receive the most attention. Local species are studied in several natural habitats, such as streams, marshlands and forests, where data are taken and subsequently analyzed using statistical software. The course will include a weekend field trip to, for example, the Connecticut coast to study the migration of shorebirds. Lab fee.
746	This course serves as an introduction to the theory and practice of political communication. In particular, the course focuses on the role of media in political campaigns, press-government relations, and policymaking, with additional emphasis on methods for analyzing political communication in the contexts of American politics and global affairs.
747	This survey examines the peoples, ideas, and institutions that have shaped U.S.foreign relations from the American Revolution to the end of World War I. The course takes a broad view of foreign relations to include interstate diplomacy and economic, social, and cultural interactions among individuals, institutions, and non-governmental
748	A study of the revolution and its Napoleonic aftermath in its French and international aspects.
749	An intoduction to issues and applications of wildlife conservation strategies in forested ecosystems of the eastern United States. We examine the interrelationships between changing land-use patterns, forest management practices and wildlife population dynamics. Emphasis is placed on identification of common woodland birds and mammals as well as habitat management options for restoration and maintenance of biological diversity. At least one Saturday field trip is
750	The objective of the course, exposure to the intricacies of the legislative process, is achieved by a blend of selected readings and participation in the New York State Legislature or not-for-profit organization dealing in advocacy or legislation. Students will serve as interns working 120 to 150 hours during the semester performing duties and responsibilities as determined by the legislator/supervisor in consultation with the faculty director. Students will be graded based upon joint evaluation of the legislator/ supervisor and internship professor. Students placed in the Community Policy Institute program will attend a scheduled weekly class. Written permission of the internship supervisor is required.
751	Lecture and laboratory covering fundamental principles of biology including the scientific method, Darwinian theories on evolution and natural selection, cell theory and the genetic basis of evolutionary change. The course concludes with an introduction to cell biology, with an emphasis on organelle structure and function. Required course for Psychology majors. Not open to Biology majors. Lab fee.
752	A study of specialized topics encompassing the Revolutionary Era from 1754 to 1815 that include: Economics of the Revolution; Education in the Colonies; Blacks in the Revolution: Free and Slave; Local HistoryAlbany, Schenectady, Troy in the Revolution; Weapons and Tactics in the World and Revolution, 1785-1815; Colonial Women; Diplomacy in the Revolutionary Era. The specific topic is announced in the schedule of course offerings. Students may repeat the course for credit provided the selected subject matter has not been taken previously for credit. (Cross-listed as AMST-485).
753	A survey of western European history between roughly 450 and 1350, tracing political, social, and cultural trends. This course will focus on the formation of an entity called ""Europe,"" distinct from its neighbors in the Byzantine and Arabic worlds, yet including non-Christians as an integral PNH)
754	This course examines representative dramas from Moratin to Benavente. Plays selected illustrate all the important literary movements of the past century.
755	This course provides a survey of the African experience from 1875 to the present. It attempts to understand the historical processes which have made Africa what it is today-politically independent, but economically dependent and plagued by a myriad of problems and challenges which demand global/international attention. Themes and topics to be covered include the pros and cons of European imperialism in Africa, African resistance to colonial rule, struggles for national independence in the post-World War II decades, white settler regimes and race relations in Africa, pan-African movements, neo-colonialism and multi-national organizations and businesses, gender and women in African societies, health and medical problems and challenges, violence, corruption, and migrations in contemporary Africa, and the challenges and problems of modernization and development. This course also introduces students to the discipline and methodologies of history. Students will engage with enduring questions of human concern, demonstrate competence in historical competence in historical literacy, and practice intercultural knowledge and respect.
756	Customer insight is the foundation of marketing. In this course students will learn how to use quantitative and qualitative research methods to understand customer preference, attitudes, and behavior, ultimately using the findings to develop effective marketing strategies. The course will also introduce relevant consumer behavior theories to explain research findings.
757	This course will explore a topic not covered in regular offerings. May be taken more than once with specific content. Consult the fall and spring course schedule for
758	An introduction to assembly language programming using a MIPS assembly language). Addressing techniques, internal computer components, machine language, subroutines, and parameter passing will be discussed. The course also covers topics in computer architecture including memory systems organization, interfacing and communication, functional
759	Reading and analysis of texts of different genres, which will be selected primarily from the works of modern French authors. In order to develop further the oral skills, class discussions will be conducted in French.
760	This course uses mathematical methods to solve both macroscopic and microscopic problems in chemistry. Specific emphasis will be on chemical kinetics, quantum mechanics, and the theory and practice of atomic and molecular spectroscopy. Topics include the applications of chemical kinetics, experimental foundations of quantum theory, postulates of quantum mechanics, solutions of the Schrodinger equation for simple systems, the hydrogen atom, angular momentum, selection rules and atomic spectroscopy, Huckel molecular theory, symmetry and group theory, rotational, vibrational, and electronic spectroscopy, and experimental applications of molecular spectroscopy. Three
761	This course will explore, at an advanced level, a biochemical topic not covered in regular course offerings. Topics will be announced during preregistration in the preceding semester. This course may be taken more than once with different content. In cases where a laboratory is offered, a lab fee will be assessed.
762	The nursing process will be applied to clients in the mental health setting and to clients with multisystem health care problems. The course will expand and adapt assessment skills to include more complex health care needs across the lifespan. These skills will be applied in laboratory practicum, hospital and/or community settings. Emphasis will be placed on the role of the RN in the caring environment. (ATT: ARTS)
763	This course is a study of quantitative methods and tools for graduate business students. Topics will include the following: Descriptive and graphical data analysis, applied probability, statistical inference, sampling and regression analysis. Other advanced statistical techniques may be included in consonance with current practice. Appropriate technology will be used in helping students to analyze statistics and make appropriate decisions based on data.
764	A survey of the literature of Republican and Imperial Rome.
765	An analysis of Soviet foreign relations: goals, strategy, and tactics, including the Cold War and post-Soviet foreign policy.
766	This course is about what is seen and how we see by focusing on the power of visual representation. The course examines the production, circulation, and interpretation of the visual to reveal aspects of society operating on both the individual, social group/ organizational, societal, and global scales. Substantive questions are explored through individual and group projects engaged in social documentation (photography, video, and multimedia online). The course may visit the New York State Museum, examine urban spaces, advertisement, and watch ethnographic films.
767	This course provides content on traditional and alternative theories of human growth and development and applies these to human behavior within the context of the social environment. Building on the assessment framework presented
768	Today's leaders must navigate across cultures and geographical boundaries to generate sustainable value for business and society. In this course students will learn how to apply innovative leadership techniques in a complex global system to deliver sustainable economic, social, and environmental transformation. They will learn the skills and mental frameworks essential for adaptive and ethical global leaders.The focus will be on how innovative and sustainable business practices can make a difference inside and outside organizations.
769	Health economics examines the economic forces which shape the delivery of health care services and the public health environment in which we conduct our everyday lives. The course also examines the health impacts and costs of alternative policy choices. supplemented by considerations of institutional
770	The study of the reign of Nicholas II (1894-1917), the Soviet period, and post-Soviet Russia.
771	This course is a literature/language course which will utilize the process of drama staging as an additional tool for learning language. It is not a performing arts class. The course will introduce students to an in-depth literary study of a selected Germanic drama, provide students with an opportunity to actively engage in the use of the German language in rewriting parts of the drama for production purposes, and enable students to stage the drama, which will not only drill language, but also facilitate the understanding of drama as not only content but also form in performance space.
772	This course surveys Latino/a literature written in English. Students will be introduced to Latino/a poetry, fiction, drama, and nonfiction prose. Latino/a literature will be examined within the context of American literature, and as a unique literary movement. Attention will be given to historical and social contexts and their impacts upon Latino/a literary tradition. Same as MULT-335.
773	This course provides a broad historical study of the main trends and events in global history from the rise of civilization in the Near East to the Italian Renaissance. It examines how patterns of interaction in the past have contributed to shaping historical change. Students will learn to understand and appreciate the important role of cross-cultural communication between the civilizations of ""the West"" and the rest of the World. They will examine the human condition over time, both the role of the powerful and the powerless. This course also introduces students to the discipline and methodologies of history. Students will engage with enduring questions of human concern, demonstrate competence in historical literacy and practice intercultural knowledge and respect.
774	Lecture and laboratory covering topics in thermodynamics, equilibrium, acids and bases, chemical kinetics, and
775	This course provides a review of the fundamental aspects of alcoholism and drug abuse in contemporary society, particulary as they relate to generalist social work practice. Areas to be covered include: a historical perspective of intoxicants, the psychopharmacology and biochemistry of alcohol and substance abuse, models for for understanding addiction, family dynamics related to chemical dependency, treatment aspects of alcoholism and chemical dependency, and a history of legislation, policy and legal issues pertaining to alcoholism and substance abuse.
776	A study of the quantitative methods used in Management. The topics covered, both in theory and application, include goal, integer and dynamic programming, inventory control, simulation techniques, transportation and assignment problems, queuing, network models, Markov chains, and Heuristics.
777	This course is designed to introduce students to topics in community development that are not currently offered as part of the Certificate in Community Development. May be taken more than once with different content. Consult Fall and Spring Schedules for specific topics.
778	A general survey of the uniform commercial code. Sales: passing of title, risk of loss, financing and security interests, bailments, and carriers. Commercial Paper: negotiation and assignment, holders in due course, defenses, banks, debtor-creditor, and bankruptcy. Property: real and personal, transfers, and financing.
779	European philosophy of the 17th and 18th centuries. Main figures include Descartes, Hobbes, Spinoza, Locke, Leibniz, Hume, and Kant. Typical questions pertain to the method proper to philosophy; the origins, nature, and limits of human knowledge; modern subjectivity and selfhood; and the nature of moral thinking and acting.
780	A survey of European history between roughly 1350 and 1500, with special emphasis on culltural
781	A sociological analysis of contemporary social movements with particular emphasis on grass-roots civic movements and their role in social change. An exmination of current empirical and theoretical issues in the study of social movements and the political, organizational, cultural, economic, and other factors that shape emergence, development, and participation in social movements.
782	Students complete 200 hours of field experience in an approved, supervised social service organization that a two-hour, weekly integrative seminar on campus to explore practice and professional development issues related to academic and community-based field learning. A one-time,
783	Teams of students in the Multimedia Minor program work on semester-long projects. The teams should comprise students from different areas of expertise in multimedia, and they should develop realistic applications similar to those found in the professional workplace. A goal of the course is to help students integrate the knowledge and skills they acquired in previous courses and demonstrate their ability
784	A survey of the social, cultural, and political development of Rome from its foundation to the fall of the empire. Same
785	An advanced marketing course which utilizes a universal analytical approach to solving marketing problems at the executive marketing and managerial level. The course draws heavily from materials found in marketing principles, economics, mathematics, and the behavioral sciences, presented to the student in a textual format. Each student will participate in the analysis of case studies to gain experience and skill in the strategy decision-making process. Open to Senior MKMG
786	This course will explore the comic impulse in a range of literary genres and may include classical Greek modes, the Shakespearian tradition, as well as modern and contemporary versions. It will consider ""comedy"" in both of its typical meanings: (1) as a literary genre in which conflicts are successfully resolved through acts of reconciliation and harmony, and (2) as humor. The course will investigate the sometimes paradoxical relation between these two definitions. Some forms of comedy may not seem to us particularly funny, yet fulfill the traditional generic requirement of ending well. Other instances of the comic contain elements that make us laugh, but the overall effect may be distressing or disharmonious. The class will also consider comedy in relation to its traditional generic foil, tragedy, discovering perhaps a surprising number of connections between these two presumably opposite modes. While some discussions will focus on what comedy offers us in terms of understanding-or enduring-the human condition, the course will also examine the cultural and historical dynamics of comedy, including issues of economics and class, gender and sexuality, as well as race and region. Authors may include Aristophanes, Shakespeare, Austen, Wilde, and Heller. A number of films may also be analyzed. language from its origins as an Indo-European
787	This course will focus on the varieties of women's religious experience. Various descriptions of the reality, distinctiveness, and value of women's religious experience as well as the role of women in institutional forms of religion will be analyzed. Readings will be drawn from the major religions of the world, with focus on the western religious
788	An intermediate level studio course in which students expand upon the knowledge and skills gained in CREA-200. Students will deepen their understanding of the practice, history and theory of drawing. Students will inquire into the purpose of drawing and analyse the historical and contemporary uses of the media. Emphasis will be placed on the creative application of the media. Prerequisite: CREA-200 of permission of the instructor. Studio fee.
789	Orchestra is a performance based course that explores the performance, history, literature, and theory of orchestral the performance, history, literature, and theory of music from a global perspective. Thus, the course explores orchestral music from a global perspective. Thus, the orchestral repertoire from diverse cultures and musical course explores orchestral repertoire from diverse styles drawn from different historical periods so as to cultures and musical styles drawn from different expose students and audiences to the various ways, historical periods so as to expose students and styles, and techniques of interpreting different types of audiences to the various ways, styles, and music. The class is community based and it is available techniques of interpreting different types of music. to students and non-students from 1 to 3 credits. CREAThe class is community based and it is available to 210 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six students and non-students from 1 to 3 credits. CREAcredits but may not exceed three credits in any one 210 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six semester. Audition and permission of instructor is credits but may not exceed three credits in any one required.
790	The materials dealt with in this course are case analyses of international practice problems and how they reflect upon our domestic legal system.
791	This course awards academic credit to eligible students for the laboratory exploration of theatrical process as designers in the production program. The number of credits awarded will be determined in advance by the Program faculty on the basis of workload and the degree of difficulty of the assignment. A satisfactory written report, practicum journal, and participation in the production program will determine the final grade. CREA-450-454 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any one semester. A field trip
792	Behavioral economics uses insight from psychology and economics to investigate the limits of human rationality. Many economic models assume that individuals can quickly and easily assess options and will select the one that satisfies their self-interest. But experimental results and everyday experience show that this is not always the case. Behavioral economics is an attempt to understand how individuals actually act in real life, focused on two main questions. The first is ""What motivates individuals?"" namely, is it really self-interest? The second question is ""How do individuals actually make decisions?"" we will see that it is very often not the rational, utility maximizing models of neoclassical microeconomic. Popular press books and recent scholarly articles will be used to assess the current understanding of human decision-making behavior.
793	European philosophy of the 19th century. Main figures are Hegel, Marx, Kierkegaard, and Nietzsche. Typical questions pertain to the role of history in shaping our selfunderstanding in science, religion, and politics; and the emergence of radical critiques of modern culture.
794	Examination of the sociological character of cities, approaches to studying cities and urbanization, and social problems unique to cities. Analysis of urban growth/ decline, global social/political/economic forces on cities, and the variety of urban social environments. Examination of social organization, culture, power, planning and governance
795	An advanced level studio course exploring the unique place of the human body within the history of painting and drawing. The class will rely on professional models. Students will analyse traditional and contemporary figurative iconography. Students will apply contemporary art theory to the creation of original work. Prerequisites: CREA-200.
796	Catholicism and American cultures encountered one another through misunderstanding and fear moving another through misunderstanding and fear moving towards a towards a period of intolerance and persecution. The period of intolerance and persecution. The course will course will examine how American Catholicism developed examine how American Catholicism developed through through justice issues such as religious freedom, social justice issues such as religious freedom, social justice, justice, racism, and gender equality. Using a thematic racism, and gender equality. Using a thematic approach approach to studying the history of Catholicism in to studying the history of Catholicism in America, the America, the course will also employ social science, course will also employ social science, psychological and psychological and political texts to paint the broadest political texts to paint the broadest picture of the development of American Catholicism. A major focus will picture of the development of American Catholicism. A be on the development of the Franciscan missions along the major focus will be on the development of the Franciscan west coast as well as the southern border of the United missions along the west coast as well as the southern States. These missions contributed further to the border of the United States. These missions contributed American Catholic experience. ATTR:(AMSC, ARTS, further to the American Catholic experience. (AMSC, ARTS, CAR, RSHS) CAR, RSHS)
797	Study of an advanced level topic selected on the basis of faculty and student interest. Subject matters will be made public in the official announcements that precede registration. This course may be taken more than once with different content. 
798	Study of a foundational level topic selected on the basis of faculty and student interest. Subject matters will be made public in the official announcements that precede registration. This course may be taken more than once with different content. 
799	This course introduces students to English language prose, poetry, and other diverse forms of cultural expression of the Romantic, Victorian, Modern, and Contemporary periods. Students will analyze these works in the context of social, historical, and political changes that affected English and Anglophone literary production after the close of the
800	An introduction to the chemical processes that occur in water, air, and soil, and the effects of pollutants on these processes. Consumption of and reliance on limited natural resources will be studied, along with emerging alternative energy sources. The laboratory will emphasize environmental sample collection and preparation, and analysis of these samples by both wet chemical methods and instrumental analysis. Three hours of lecture and four hours of ECON-240).
801	The course is intended to provide opportunities for concentrated study at an advanced level in areas beyond the scope of regular course offering including topics of current concern and topics specificlly identified as meeting specialized interests of students. This course is offered on an irregular basis. It may be taken more than
802	This course surveys theoretical and applied issues relating to the nature of human intelligence. The history of intelligence testing is covered, with emphasis on its impact on social policy in the United States throughout the 20th century. The question ""What is intelligence?"" is examined from several viewpoints, including psychometric, information processing, and cross-cultural perspectives. Theory and research regarding hereditary versus environmental influences on intelligence are studied. Finally, prospects for training intelligence through the use of thinking skills programs are evaluated.
803	In this field and laboratory-based course, students actively participate in collaborative projects that integrate into a larger ecological research framework. The class covers all phases of the research process, from generating hypotheses and design, field data collection to analysis, interpretation, and reporting of results. Through guided study, students gain advanced insight into wildlife ecology, human-wildlife interactions, and related environmental issues.
804	This course has a significant focus on the challenges faced by people and communities dealing with poverty in rural North America. It critically examines community development and community needs/challenges unique to a rural setting. This is a travel/immersion course with the travel being done in August of the sophomore year to a rural community outside Siena's immediate geographic
805	The second introductory course in accounting focuses on the managerial aspect of accounting. The emphasis is placed on internal uses of accounting information to make managerial decisions. The coverage will include topics such as: cost volume profit analysis, cost behavior, activity based costing, short term decision making, income tax considerations, budgeting, responsibility accounting, performance measurement, and cost control. Lab problems required.
806	History of women in the United States from the pre-Columbian era to the present. Students will focus on issues, of gender difference in the history of American business, labor, politics, culture, and social life, as well as considering differences between women with regard to race, ethnicity, class, and age. (Same as WSTU-350)
807	The student is introduced to a systematic treatment of global marketing. The emphasis is on the problems and opportunities available to exporters of U.S. products and services, as well as organizations with multinational or global operations. Attention is devoted to cultural, social, and economic factors that affect marketing on a global scale. Suggested for students enrolled in International Studies, Foreign Languages and Business Program.
808	This course will explore, at an intermediate level, special topics in environmental studies not covered in regular course offerings. Topics will be announced during pre-registration in the preceding semester. This course may be taken more than once with different content.
809	A study of thermal phenomena from a macroscopic point of view, including the development and applications of the first two laws of thermodynamics, entropy, thermodynamic potentials, and equilibrium phenomena. The concept of distribution functions is developed. This is followed by a study of classical statistical mechanics and the statistics of Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac. Three hours of lecture a week for one semester.
810	This course explores the history and practices of print and digital design. A variety of design projects from logos to websites focusing on composition, color theory, and typography provide students with the skills needed to communicate an idea using imagery and text effectively. With each project, we will improve our visual literacy and digital skills using essential software programs in the Adobe Creative Suite. Throughout the semester,students will develop a strong understanding of design theory and acquire the tools to explore their options within the field of visual art and design. Prerequisite:MUMD225 or permission of the instructor. Studio fee.
811	The purpose of this one semester undergraduate course is to introduce the student to the use of instrumental chemical techniques to the analyses of physical evidence materials of forensic import. Crime scene evidence gathering techniques will be discussed. The course includes lectures and has as a critical portion laboratory sessions. At the conclusion of the course the successful student will understand the fundamental use and operation of certain types of chemical instrumentation and their application to material and increase his knowledge and understanding of the analytical approach and interpretation of quantitative
812	A study of the political cultures and institutions of the newly independent states that were once part of the Soviet empire. The course includes discussions of modernization and adaptation as well as problems of ethnicity, race, and political socialization.
813	An introduction to quantum mechanics, particle physics, and cosmology. Students will be introduced to the theories that describe Nature at the very smallest and very largest scales.
814	A beginning studio course exploring the history of photography, the mechanics of making pictures, and the range of conceptual approaches found within this expansive medium. Students develop a digital workflow using Lightroom, Camera RAW, Photoshop, and Epson Inkjet Printers. Aesthetic issues regarding composition, light, subject matter, and photographic vision are stressed. Studio fee.
815	This course is designed to introduce students to interactive media and online reporting. Students will learn the technology required to design and produce a web site. They will learn to write for new media, particularly the internet. Students will also practice using the internet for journalistic research. This course will also be open to students interested in using the internet for distributing their creative work. No previous experience with web
816	This is a performance course in physical and vocal technique for the stage and other performance media. General physical limbering and awareness and the development of a free and natural speaking voice pave the way for extensive exercises for the breath, resonation and vocal articulation as well as methodologies in movement, which include improvisation, group performances and individual movement techniques designed to increase the body's expressiveness. Presentations of scripted material, extracts from dramatic literature or poetry from the periodic ""onstage"" portion of this pratical performance course. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab fee.
817	Same as PHYS-210, but without laboratory. Offered to non-Physics majors only.
818	This course examines the actions of psychoactive drugs on brain and behavior. Drugs of abuse and psychotherapeutic drugs are given about equal emphasis. Drug use as a social problem is examined in historical and current perspectives, covering substances such as narcotics, stimulants, hallucinogens, marijuana, and alcohol. Drugs of abuse are examined with regard to their mechanisms of action, effects on the body and on behavior. Addition and treatment approaches are examined from multiple perspectives. Medicines for psychological disorders (affective, anxiety, schizophrenia) are studies by examining the mechanisms of drug action on the brain; major and minor tranquilizers and antidepressant medications are covered. Also discussed are ""non-drug"" drugs caffeine and nicotine.
819	A survey of the social, cultural, and political development of the Ancient Greeks, beginning with the Ancient Near East and continuing through the Homeric to the Hellenistic Age. This course may not be used to fulfill the requirement of six hours of foreign language study. (Same as CLSS-305)
820	Theories of personality including psychoanalytic, neoanalytic, trait, learning, and humanistic paradigms are examined and evaluated.
821	This course examines the role of women in politics in terms of the broad political questions of participation, political socialization, social movements and public policy.
822	A study of the emergence of the regional state system, deep economic transformation, and wrenching social and cultural changes since 1800. Particular attention is given to the reasons for conflict and war.
823	This academically oriented course will be taught in English and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Spanish-speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost varies each semester. This course will not fulfill a language requirement, nor will it count toward a major or
824	An introduction to French writers of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Included are examples of short story, poetry, and drama.
825	Data science and analytics is an emerging field concerned with gathering, organizing, analyzing and visualizing large collections of information in order to extract actionable knowledge, i.e. to make decisions. This course is a basic introduction to the subject. Students will learn to identify data problems and to gather and analyze data using a suitable programming language such as R or Python. The coursework is aimed to help students to solve real world data problems obtained from a ""subject matter expert"", i.e. a client who needs assistance with making data-driven decision in his/her field. No previous programming experience is necessary. ATTR: (ARTS)
826	This course examines the foundations of economic theory as it relates to unemployment, inflation, and economic growth. Topics might include aggregate demand, aggregate supply, market equilibrium, national income accounting, theories of income determination, money and banking, and fiscal and monetary policies.
827	A general survey of Latin American literature from its origins to the contemporary period.
828	The purpose of this course is to teach students how to tutor others in writing. The major emphasis of this course is on writing: analyzing your own writing processes while learning to talk to others about theirs. This course is required for anyone who wants to be a Writing Center tutor.
829	This course will explore the critical role of leadership in achieving an organization's strategic objectives. Emphasis will be placed on how ledership theories and skills are most effectively applied in complex, real-world organizations. The leaders' social responsibilities to stakeholders, the external environment, and the natural world will be incorporated throughout the course. Students will also have the opportunity to reflect on and develop their own leadership skills. Prerequisites: MGMT329
830	Visual Culture of the Spanish-Speaking World, taught in English, will address visual cultural products produced in Latin America, Spain, the Caribbean, and Latino/as in the United States. Through the study of films, street art, photography, illustration, paintings, and protest art, among other media, students will gain an appreciation for the vast diversity amongst Iberoamerican cultures. The study of visual culture will be used to delve into themes such as gender equality, immigration, class disparities, and ethnic and religious minorities framed within sociopolitical contexts. The goal of the course is to reach a further understanding of the rich and diverse visual cultural production in a wide variety of Spanishspeaking contexts.
831	A course consisting of the physiological and neurological bases for behavior, including the study of the nervous system, endocrine system, sensation and perception, the motor system, and the physiological basis for motivation.
832	This course is designed to further develop the concepts within four themes of individual, health, nursing and healthcare environment. This course will emphasize advanced concepts of the complex patient and introduces the student to sexuality. A clinical component will include inpatient and outpatient settings in obstetrics and medical surgical nursing. The clinical experience will provide the student with the development of a broader perspective of the nurse's role using evidence and sound judgement when implementing care to patients with changing situations. Upon completion, students will be able to demonstrate the knowledge and skills necessary to provide safe, quality and holistic care to patients with alterations in health status. Students will function as a patient and family advocate providing teaching across various situations. The student will recognize the role of the nurse in health promotion across the continuum of care. Pre-req: NURS 110 and NURS 115, ATTR: Arts
833	A studio course in which students analyze and interpret a variety of dramatic texts for the theatre. Students develop an artistic concepts out of this study in order to render costume plates and makeup plots for the stage. Students will study the aesthetics and theory of design as well as current and past theatrical practice of costume design in the theatre. Students will be introduced to the history and politics of clothing and the cultural adaptations as applied to the stage. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab Fee.
834	A study, using a variety of methods and differing kinds of materials including tragedies, comedies, lyric poetry, historical writings, lawcourt speeches, funeral stele, vase and fresco paintings, sculpture, medical treatises, etc., to recover as clear a reflection of the feminine voice from the Greco-Roman past as possible and to understand not only the role or position of women in antiquity, but the very meaning of ""woman"" for the ancients. Among the works by women writers that are extant we may include the poets Sappho, Corinna, Erinna, Nossis, and Sulpicia; early Hellenistic treaties attributed to Pythagorean women; private correspondence; Egeria's 5th-cent. C.E. travel diary.
835	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Marketing at an introductory level with no prerequisities. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. This course is not intended for students within the School of Business and may not be taken for credit by students enrolled in a major offered by the School of Business. School of Arts and School of Science students may take this course for elective credit only. 
836	A study of the principles and the applications used in operations management. The topics covered include operations strategy, managing for quality, forecasting, project management, supply chain management, and inventory management.
837	A development of the theory of hypothesis testing. Probability theory, including discrete and continuous random variables is studied. Some simple nonparametric tests are developed, and hypothesis tests based on the normal, the Student's t, and the chi-square distributions are studied. Offered in Spring Semester.
838	This survey of the poets and prose writers of the neoclassical movement may include the works of Dryden, Swift, Pope, Johnson, and Boswell, and one or two novelists of the
839	This course provides an introduction to modern applied economics through the exploration of leading economic issues Topics may include poverty, inequality, discrimination, innovation and entrepreneurship, healthcare, housing insecurity, alternative economic systems, household economics, climate change, crime, and addiction.
840	A historical treatment from the European perspective of the principal developments and crises from the end of World War to the present.
841	This course, taught in English, provides an overview of women's writing and cultural expression from Latin America through novels, short stories, poetry, film and music. Historical and contextual background of the authors and their countries of origin are interwoven into course material. This course examines women's search for a voice in Latin America. Does not count towards Spanish major or minor.
842	A survey of the arts of Italy and northern Europe in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, viewed in light of the humanism and naturalistic outlook of the period.
843	This is an introductory course to the elements of business. It is offered for non-business majors. Students will be introduced to foundational business concepts, including marketing, management, accounting and finance. Additionally, students will begin to explore traditional paths to entrepreneurship. Some emphasis will be placed on understanding the design and development of business and marketing plans.
844	This course is a continuation of Managerial Finance I. Topics covered include working capital management, the use of long-term financing and leverage. It will also deal with the special topics of mergers or international finance.
845	This academically oriented course will be taught in Russian and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in Russia. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, student present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost varies each semester. This course will fulfill a language requirement. Permission of instructor required.
846	Introduction to Creative Writing is the first course in the creative writing sequence at Siena and is intended for students with little to no experience with creative writing. This course will introduce students to the basics of writing poetry, fiction, and creative nonfiction and will prepare students for further study in these three genres. This class will feature a great deal of in-class writing exercises, and students should be prepared to write in class and share what they've written out loud for critique. There is a workshop component to this class, and students should expect to share their creative work with their classmates throughout the semester. Students should also be prepared to study and analyze contemporary published poetry, fiction, and creative nonfiction and to respond to these readings with short critical responses.
847	This course will examine topics in Revolutionary Era studies not already covered in History 312. The area or theme will be studied in depth and the instructor will include experiential learning or project-based learning in the curriculum. An additional fee may be required, depending on the experiential learning opportunity. May be taken more than once with different topics. Prerequisites: Any HIST 100 level course.
848	Using the aging process in the United States as a beginning point, this course transcends national borders to explore aging in a variety of nations, delineated primarily by their economic level of development. Aging populations in these countries are examined on a multiplicity of levels that include demographic changes, health characteristics, family relationships as well as the economic and political implications of this process on the larger society.
849	This seminar course provides an integrated experience that builds on earlier courses to understand relevant applied chemical processes. It will cover the major differences between small and large/industrial scale chemistry. It will also review how a company will take a product from R&D-to-production-to-sales and distribution.
850	The course will explore the diverse microbial world, focusing primarily on bacteria, but also including archaea, viruses, and eukaryotic microbes. After exploring the basics of microbial structure, genetics, and metabolism, the course will focus on the interactions amongst microbes and between microbes and larger eukaryotes in the contexts of microbial disease and environmental microbiology. The lab will reinforce course concepts while also increasing students' abilities to design and test hypotheses and to interpret scientific data. Designed for biology and other science majors. Prerequisite: BIOL-220. Lab fee.
851	An examination of the ancient cultures of Palestine from Neolithic times to early days of the Christian church. uncovered in excavations and also the nature (and limits) of new archaeological methods. Biblical Archaeology also probes the relationship between text (the Bible and ancient inscriptions) and these material remains. The course will investigate the religion of Israel as can be deduced from excavations but will place that religion in the broader context of the entire culture of Israel and of the ancient Near East.
852	A survey of Latin American culture and civilization from pre-Hispanic days to the present. This course will focus on specific historical moments throughout Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean, the Southern Cone and the Andes, as well as on some works on post-colonial theory. It will also identify and analyze a diverse range of written and audio-visual cultural material that includes short stories, essays, films and music, among
853	Study of a topic in Physics selected on the basis of faculty and student interest. Prerequisites depend on the topic being offered, and course registration requires permission of the instructor. May be taken more than once with different topics.
854	An introduction to accounting information systems and their roles in the accounting environment. Systems covered include manual accounting, computerized accounting and Internet electronic commerce applications. Emphasis is upon developing students' abilities to understand the processing of accounting data and the controls that are necessary to assure accuracy and reliability of the data processed by
855	Students will review narrative accounts of the school experiences of adolescents from diverse backgrounds. Their first task will be to consider how narrative, empirical, and theoretical knowledge provide different perspectives on understanding the school lives of adolescents. Then, they will examine how cultural canons about adolescence influence the many ways young people live out their lives in school. They will review and interpret narrative accounts of schooling through fiction, autobiography, movies and self-reflection about adolescence. Students will not be ""given the answers"" or told what to think about adolescence and schooling. Rather, readings and class presentations will provide them with information and theoretical points of view which sometimes conflict. Ultimately, they will be asked to examine these multiple perspectives to create their own way of viewing adolescents in school settings. A twenty-hour field experience at the middle school or junior high school level is required (transportation is the responsibility of each student).
856	This internship provides students with practical experience in a professional media environment. Performance at the host media company, in addition to a satisfactory written report and an internship journal will determine the final grade. JOUR-415 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any one semester. Permission of Director of Broadcast & Society Minor required.
857	This course is designed to help the professional explore, select and model large quantities of data to uncover novel patterns and new insight into mature business processes. Students will learn when and how to use various mining techniques from large datasets chosen from the accounting, finance and marketing areas. Topics may include forecasting, clustering, nearest neighborhood classification and regression, principal component analyses and factor analyses. Topics are expected to change as the discipline continues to redefine itself. Prerequisite: QBUS 550
858	A study of elementary ordinary differential equations, including first order equations and linear homogeneous and non-homogeneous equations of higher order. Applications of differential equations are emphasized throughout the course. Standard solution techniques, including the Laplace transform, are introduced. Prerequisite: Calculus III or Calculus II and permission of the instructor. Offered Spring Semester.
859	An examination of fundamental questions about the nature and significance of religion. Central issues to be studied are: religion as a reasonable form of life; religious skepticism; pluralism in religion; arguments for the existence of God; the impact of science on religious belief; the place of ritual and symbolism in human life; and religious language. Traditional and contemporary texts will
860	This course is an introduction to the concepts and profession of personal financial planning. Gain an understanding of the role and responsibilities of a financial planner, along with analytical skills to aid in financial decision-making. Topics include the financial planning process, securities regulation and licensing, CFP Board ethics, the economic environment, the time value of money, and planning for special situations such as a college education, the formation and operation of a closely held business, and disability. It also previews wealth accumulation, tax, retirement, and estate planning techniques.
861	This course asks students to critique and analyze the methods and motives of other academic writers. Introducing students to basic rhetorical theories and concepts, this course is designed to help students to write effectively for the college academic community, which involves demonstrating critical reading, thinking, researching, and writing skills. The purpose of this course is to help students become familiar with the dominant conventions and expectations of academic argumentation and to assist them in writing persuasive
862	A study of the aesthestics and mechanics of designing lighting and sound for the stage. Students will utilize design, drafting and presentation skills developed in class to created lighting cues, lighting plots, electrician schedules, sound plots, sound cues and sound recordings based on the interpretation of a theatrical script. Students will have the opportunity to explore the principles of lighting in a lighting laboratory using current technology. Students will also use current sound technology to record, construct and manipulate sound effects. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab fee.
863	This course completes the Management Information Systems sequence. Students will continue their study of programming and databases, while gaining hands-on experience in the application of these skills in a management setting. Topics may include electronic commerce, decision support systems, executive information systems, and other current aspects of information technology. Lab fee.
864	This course covers the theoretical and practical application of several advanced instrumental techniques. These techniques include a variety of spectroscopy methods, gas and liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, and
865	This course will give a hands-on experience using Business Intelligence tools. (Tableau and Excel). Successful businesses typically collect, analyze and utilize information more effectively that their competitors. Emerging technology can capture large volumes of data which can overpower current evaluative methods, interfering with a business' ability to analyze and utilize new information. These challenges are addressed in this course so that learners can become more intelligent information users in their chosen field.
866	A rigorous exploration of both the theory and practice of acting for the stage, focusing on textual analysis and its intergration into the rehearsal process, improvisation and its contribution to role preparation, contemporary methods of actor training, audition techniques, and acting in nonlinear or non-traditional roles. Students will prepare scenes and audition monologues as an integral part of the course of instruction. This course is designed for students with prior on-stage experience and training in acting. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab Fee.
867	Organizational behavior is an application of the principles of the behavioral sciences to the functions, needs, and role of management. The specific principles that comprise the foundation of organizational behavior have been provided by the theories, methods, and principles of such diverse disciplines as psychology, sociology, industrial engineering organization theory, and communication systems. Topics covered include: organizational culture, decision making skills, group and integroup behavior and productivity, non-verbal and interpersonal communication skills, participatory management organization development (OD) and change, stresses in managerial work life, quality of work life, improving subordinate performance, and developing effective
868	Medieval Philosophy is the study of foundational ideas discussed by thinkers such as Augustine, Anselm, Aquinas, and Bonaventure. Also included are a look at Islamic and Jewish philosophers who took the ideas of Aristotle and used
869	A survey of the history of Latin America from 1492 to independence in the 1820s.
870	Film has mass appeal and is readily accessible to most people, giving them a scope of influence few other media have. In this course we will treat films as texts (a text being a ""coherent, delimited, comprehensible structure of meaning"") subject to interpretation in terms of political situations.
871	A survey of East Asian history with emphasis on the political economic, social, and cultural development of China, Japan, and Korea: from earliest times to 1600.
872	An examination of ethics in business and work. Among the topics to be addressed are: recognizing and analyzing ethical issues in business; promoting ethical behavior in corporations and institutions; the social responsibilities of business; the role of business in a free market economy: ethics in the global economy; the role of the professions in contemporary American society. 
873	A survey of the development of world theatre covering material from 17th century theatre through contemporary achievements, focusing on theatre architecture, plays, acting styles, theatrical conventions, methods of production and critical perspectives during significant periods of theatrical activity. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab Fee.
874	Statistical tests for multivariable problems are developed and applied to real data sets. The computer and the SPSS package will be used. Offered Fall Semester.
875	A study of the emergence of the United States as an industrial, urban nation and as a world power.
876	Calculus 1A and 11A provide life science students with a foundation in calculus based mathematics. Calculus IA covers the concepts of limit and derivative in depth and also includes the idea of the definite integral. These concepts provide tools to understand the behavior of the elementary algebraic and transcendental functions. There is a strong emphasis in this course on the applications of calculus to the biological sciences.
877	These are a series of courses that contain an academic component and a physical activity component. The content of each course will be designated by subtitle. Courses within this framework would be pass/fail, and do not fulfill college core requirements. It may be take more than once with different content, though students can only take a maximum of three topics at one credit each.
878	Study of a foundational level topic selected on the basis of faculty and student interest. Subject matters will be made public in the official announcements that precede registration. This course may be taken more than once with
879	A beginning studio course exploring traditional photographic concerns as expressed through the digital format. Basic technical issues of camera operation, image processing via the computer, and print output are explored. Aesthetic issues regarding composition, light, subject matter and photographic vision are stressed. Studio fee.
880	Selected areas of advanced study in visual art history,
881	This course is designed to explore areas and topics not treated in the traditional history course offerings. The area or theme will be studied in depth and emphasis will be on discussion. The subject will be announced before the semester in which the colloquium is to be given. An additional fee may be required, depending on the topic offered. May be taken more than once with different
882	As an academically oriented field experience, this course offers three semester hours credit for an intensive two-to two-and-a-half week study program in selected geographical areas to study aspects of religion from the perspectives of subdisciplines of historical studies, religious though, ethics, or world religions, preceded by orientation lectures, and including supervised research into one aspect at different times include: Religion and the Peace Process in Northern Ireland, The World of the Protestant Reformation, The Relationship between African Religion and the African American Community, and Franciscan Italy. Travel costs are paid by the student. The cost varies each semester. ""Students may repeat this course for credit provided the selected subject matter has not been previously taken for credit""
883	The most comprehensive and fundamental questions about reality are pursued in this course. Examples are the origin and makeup of the cosmos, the existence of such ""things"" as minds, God, freedom, evil, space, and time. The course explores concepts that philosophers, scientists, and theologians rely on to express their respective accounts of such enduring questions. These topics are pursued through
884	Lectures covering the general principles of Biology with evolution as the unifying theme. Topics include the scientific method, mechanisms of evolution, genetics, biochemistry, cell structure and function. Lab work includes experiments designed to illustrate basic biological concepts. Emphases include developing and testing hypotheses and writing laboratory reports. This course is intended primarily for School of Science majors.
885	Music Theory I is an introductory courses in elementary harmony. Its main objective is to engage students in, and guide them through, the creative processes involved in music making and analysis through music notation, melodic writing, and elementary harmony. The stated objectives are achieved by engaging students in frequent hands-on in-class exercises and a final project.
886	A survey of different forms of national capitalist economic organization, e.g. comparisons of the U.S., Germany and Japan with regard to institutional and policy-making differences as they affect the distribution of wealth and income and social welfare. Other topics include comparisons of various socialist economies and formerly socialist economies in Eastern Europe and China, as well as the emerging hybrid forms of economic organization in those
887	Lecture and laboratory covering the fundamental laws and principles of chemical structure and reactivity. Interactive laboratories focus on rediscovery of these principles and mastery of basic laboratory techniques including an introduction to chemical instrumentation and digital data analysis. Three hours of lecture, one hour of studio laboratory, and three hours of practical laboratory each
888	The course surveys the development of Asian American literature within the context of different Asian and Asian American cultural and historical traditions, and dominant American literary, racial, and political discourses. Student will read a wide array of literary, theoretical, and
889	An introductory study focusing on the achievements in Greek art, including architecture, painting, pottery, and sculpture, as well as advances in science, technology and engineering, from the Minoan-Mycenaean period to the Hellenistic Age. The course will also highlight major archaeological sites, which may include Mycenae, Troy, Knossos, Pylos, Tiryns, Athens, Olympia, Delphi, and Ephesus, among many other possibilities.
890	Research is increasingly utilized by managers. Students will benefit from a better understanding of exactly how research is conducted by participating in a genuine, professional research project. This project focuses on defining the problem, designing the appropriate methods and strategies for gathering data, analyzing and interpreting the data, and reporting the findings to the particular client. Practical knowledge of a statistical software package is an integral part of the course.
891	A continuation of ITAL 101. 
892	This course emphasizes the entrepreneurial and practical skills relevant to the visual and performing arts. Students will examine how to engage communities through the arts while raising the profile of their artistic work. Featuring guest speakers from the field, the course will engage students in discussions about developing and maintaining meaningful relationships with an artistic community. This course offers students insight into a variety of arts organizations, for-profit, nonprofit and public art, as well as experimental, presenting, and non-traditional forms of organizations.
893	An advanced marketing course designed to provide students with in-depth knowledge of the fundamentals of consumer behavior, with emphasis on the consumer in the marketplace, consumers as individuals, consumers as decision makers, and consumers as influenced by culture and subculture. A critical examination of consumer behavior theories and research will be undertaken. Further emphasis will be placed on understanding the application of consumer behavior concepts in a competitive, dynamic, and global business environment.
894	Qualified students are encouraged to undertake an independent study project in their junior or senior year. Such a project requires the approval of the faculty member supervising the project and the department head. The student qualifies for his or her grade and credits by the submission of a satisfactory written report. When appropriate, an examination may be required. Students are limited to no more one independent study project in any academic year.
895	The decisions made in international relations today affect the childhood experiences of the next generation of leaders and hence will greatly shape how the world will react to impending issues dealing with war and prosperity. This course examines both the impact of war and work on children and discusses and evaluates various policies for dealing with
896	The emphasis is on speaking Russian. Colloquial speech patterns will be studied. To broaden vocabulary, increase reading skills and stimulate classroom discussion, texts ranging from Pushkin to Solzhenitsyn will be used. Grammar and syntax will be reviewed.
897	No longer offered. part of European history.
898	A student, with the consent of the Executive Director of CIE, the Dean of the School of Business, and a participating faculty member of the CIE, may pursue further research and study on a particular topic in innovation or entrepreneurship. The student will be directed by the participating faculty member. The student will meet with the faculty member for regular discussion (Guided Independent Study) or periodic discussion (Traditional Independent Study). The student and faculty mentor will submit an Independent Study proposal clarifying learning expections, project timeline and deliverables. The student will be expected to comply with all College guidelines concerning such projects.
899	A study of men's experience as gendered persons, rather than as universal human beings, from the perspectives of men's studies and religious ethics. The course will examine gender relations and critical theory as well as specific topics related to men's lives, such as: growing up male, seasons of men's lives, friends and lovers, sexuality and marriage, careers and fatherhood, politics and war, and new spiritual and social visions.
900	A comprehensive study of the literatures of the Old Testament/Hebrew Bible and the religious, historical, sociological, and economic factors which affected both their writing and their eventual acceptance as canonical literature by Judaism and Christianity. The course will expose the students to samples of all the main literary genres of the Old Testament and will study them using most of the comtemporary biblical methodologies. The course will emphasize that the Hebrew Bible emerged on the broader stage of the ancient Near East between the high cultures of Mesopotamia and Egypt. It will aslo approach many crucial topics in the Old Testament such as the evolution of biblical monotheism, Israelite religion(s), the emergence of Israel in Canaan, Creation and Covenant.
901	This course examines all aspects of writing and reporting nonfiction feature reports for various media platforms. Student projects include human interest stories and profile pieces. Topics addressed include associated Press Style, literary journalism, researching source material, interviewing subjects, and audio/visual storytelling techniques. Students shoot and edit video using HD cameras and Final Cut Pro software.
902	An in-depth introduction to a computer algebra system. The basic features of the computer algebra system, a study of the embedded functions, programming and graphics will be covered. Emphasis will be on the development of an understanding of the system and the capabilities that will allow for the successful application of this powerful tool to the solution of mathematical and scientific problems.
903	There will be a case study examination of its historic development in economic, security, and cultural involvement from isolation to globalism.
904	A qualified student, with the consent of the Head of the Marketing and Management Department, the Dean of the School of Business, and a participating faculty member of the department, may pursue further research and study on a particular topic in Marketing or Management. The student will be directed by the participating faculty member. The number of credits to be awarded (1 to 3) will be submitted to the department head for approval by the participating faculty member. The student will meet with the faculty member for periodic discussion. The student will also submit a satisfactory written report to the faculty member concerned. The student will be expected to comply with all School of Business guidelines concerning such projects. Independent study may be taken twice for credit.
905	An examination of ethics in business and work. Among the topics to be addressed are: recognizing and analyzing ethical issues in business; promoting ethical behavior in corporations and institutions; the social responsibilities of business; the role of business in a free market economy; ethics in the global economy; the role of the professions in
906	This is an introductory course to the scientific principles that govern the structure and properties of materials, including metals, ceramics, semiconductors, and polymers. Emphasis is placed on how the underlying bonding and atomic structure determine the physical properties of the material (mechanical, electrical, thermal, optical) at multiple length scales, from atomic packing to micron scale. The course reviews practical applications to engineering materials and aspects of modern nanomaterials, from the viewpoint of thermodynamics and physical kinetics.
907	The course will examine principles, structures, procedures, and decision-making of the American legislative system with a primary emphasis on the U.S. Congress.
908	This course examines digital evidence procedures, focusing on techniques and emerging trends among various crimes within our society, and the challenges digital devices pose during internal audits, financial fraud and crime scene investigation. Students will learn the fundamental process of understanding what evidence can be developed from digital forensics and tips on analyzing data collected from electronic devices (including computers, media, and other digital evidence), in order to assist in a full scope audit or investigation.
909	This course addresses the use of theatre as a medium for discussing and enacting social change. Students will learn techniques of applied theatre-making as well as the history of the use of theatre as a tool to promote social change. Through class discussion and participation in practical applied theatre projects, students will examine and explore techniques such as community based performance, playback theatre, and theatre of the oppressed. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage.
910	The application of mathematics and physics to the solution of macroscopic problems in chemistry. Topics include the properties of ideal and real gases, extensive and intensive properties, the laws and mathematics of thermodynamics, the chemical potential, chemical equilibrium of single and multiphase systems, ideal and real solutions, ionic solutions and electrochemistry, introductory chemical kinetics and kinetic molecular theory. Prerequisites: CHEM-170 or PHYS-260). It is strongly recommended that a grade of C or better be earned for each prerequisite course.
911	Presents principles of software engineering, including the software development life cycle (SDLC); i.e. the planning, creating, testing, and deploying an information system. This course introduces various software development project management models, with a focus on the Agile Scrum framework. Students work in teams with a client to design and develop a large-scale software application. Lab fee. (ARTS, ISCE)
912	A study of ecological processes in tropical ecosystems, emphasizing the ecology of tropical rainforests. The laboratory portion of the course will involve two weeks of intensive field work in a tropical rainforest. Written permission of instructor required. There is a separate field trip fee. Same as BIOL-235.
913	In this course students will learn marketing concepts, models, analysis tools, and how to apply them for effective managerial decision making. Students will learn how to conduct a marketing analysis and to formulate, implement, and evaluate marketing strategies in an uncertain environment. The class teaches students to identify and evaluate the ethical implications of decisions, and to incorporate ethical reasoning into the decision making process. Topics include identifying marketing opportunities, selecting customer targets, effectively positioning products and services, and implementing marketing mix programs.
914	Political economy is the study of economic systems, institutions, and outcomes from the perspective of who gains and who loses. Conflict over the distribution of these gains and losses, and the use of power to obtain a desired economic outcome will be the focal points of much of our analysis. As such, the methodology used in this course will differ substantially from that used by mainstream economics, which focuses primarily on efficiency and growth and ignores different concepts of economic justice and the role of distribution and power in affecting economic outcomes. To facilitate this approach, this course takes a critical look at American capitalism from contrasting theoretical perspectives, where the interaction of political, social, and cultural forces is brought to bear on economic interactions. This will allow us to develop a broader and more sophisticated perspective on how the American economy actually works, why it doesn't always work, who it works for and against, and why
915	This course is designed to develop the student's understanding of the structure and function of our banking system and the role of monetary policy in determining economic activity. Topics included are: the nature of money, the term structure of interest rates, the regulation of commercial bank activity, and the macro-monetary models used to predict
916	An introduction to protein structure and function, enzyme kinetics, and the regulation of metabolism. Laboratory component provides experience with concepts and techniques introduced in lecture and features an independent project in protein purification using state-of-the-art column chromato-
917	This course explores the nature and causes of fluctuations in aggregate business activity and the technique used to forecast. To gain an understanding of these techniques, and the usefulness of forecasts, students will prepare a forecast and explore its application to firm decision making. (Same as FINC-421)
918	Siena's flagship choral ensemble, Chamber Singers is an auditioned choir of 12-16 voices. Focus is on developing technique through reading, discussion, and performance of major choral literature. A rigorous process includes topics in music literacy and theory, history and performance practice. Students may register for up to 3 credits per academic year; up to 6 credits may count towards a CREA program of study. Prerequisite: Audition and permission of instructor.
919	Music Theory I is an introductory course in elementary harmony. Its main objective is to engage students in, and guide them through, the creative processes involved in music and analysis through music notation, melodic writing, and elementary harmony. The stated objectives are achieved by engaging students in frequent hands-on in-class exercises and a final project.
920	Selected German Readings offered as a tutorial for advanced students of German.
921	A survey of different forms of national capitalist economic organization, e.g. comparisions of the U.S., Germany and Japan with regard to institutional and policy-making differences as they affect the distribution of wealth and income and social welfare. Other topics include comparisons of various socialist economies and formerly socialist economies in Eastern Europe and China as well as the emerging hybrid forms of economic organization in those societies
922	An introduction to and examination of estate planning. Wills, trusts, estates, gift taxes and responsibilities of estate administrators will be analyzed.
923	This academically oriented course will be taught in English and consists of coursework in English followed by an intensive travel study component in Russia. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socioeconomic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost
924	Students will explore compelling issues of the era such as magic, science, and witchcraft; the New World; the African slave trade; early feminism; and the struggle for religious, political, and social freedom. Readings will be selected from writers such as John Donne, George Herbert, Aemilia Lanyer, John Milton, and Mary Wroth.
925	A survey of communications law including liebel, privacy, confidentiality, and access to information as these issues pertain to broadcast journalists. This course also covers key ethical issues faced by broadcast journalists including finding facts through a variety of sources, dealing with conflict of interest and avoiding harm. Same as CREA 117.
926	This course treats industrialization and social change, the emergence of socialism and workers' movements, political and economic liberalism, German and Italian unification, Social Darwinism, and European imperialism.
927	A survey of the political, geographic, social, economic, and intellectual factors that have contributed to the growth of the United States as a great power; from the Civil War era to the present.
928	An advanced management course designed to provide students with in-depth knowledge of the fundamentals of organizational development and change. Emphasis will be on understanding change, how change impacts both individuals and organizations, how best to ""manage"" the change process, and the primary individual group, and organizational level interventions commonly used in organizations to enhance performance.
929	This course examines specific themes in international relations, comparative politics,and/or international affairs Credits for this course will be applied to the Political Science major's International Relations track. This course can be taken more than once for credit, depending on the content of the specific course for which credit-either transfer or regular is awarded.
930	This course considers the practice of history outside of the formal classroom. Areas of study may include, but are not limited to, museums, libraries, archives, state and national parks, historical societies, theme parks, publishing, filmmaking, archaeology, and
931	""Social Policy Without Borders"" examines social policy in a global context by focusing on two distinct, but related areas of inquiry. In the first half of the course, students will learn about theories of the welfare state, and--through comparative analysis--about the similarities and differences between selected social welfare systems in economically developed countries. In the second segment, students will explore the impact of economic and political globalization on national social policies and social welfare provisions in both developed and developing countries. ""Social Policy Without Borders"" provides knowlede and analytical skills for students in a variety of disciplines (social work, sociology, political science, economics, health studies, etc.) who are interested in working with marginalized populations, whether in the United States or through international organizations--in other countries. ""Social Policy Without Borders' includes a 2 day trip to Montreal, where students will meet with their counterparts at McGill University. This visit will include a panel discussion about social policies in Canaca and the United States, as well as visits to Canadian social welfare agencies.
932	An advanced course in entrepreneurship focusing on developing, planning, financing and launching new business ventures. The course will require students to integrate the functional areas of business in developing, writing and presenting a real business plan for an entrepreneurial start-up
933	This is a one semester introductory course in Topology. The topics covered include: Open and closed sets, topologies on general point sets, connectedness, compactness, continuity, product and quotient topologies, and metric spaces. Applications to other areas in mathematics (principally geometry and analysis) will be explored. Offered Spring Semester.
934	This course awards academic credit to eligible students to create advanced media content for a semester-long project designed to further the student's application of writing and production skills. The number of credits awarded will be determined in advance by Director of the Broadcast & Society Minor on the basis of workload and the degree of difficulty of the assignment. Creation of substantial media work, in addition to a satisfactory written report and a practicum journal will determine the final grade. CREA-470 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any
935	A study of the military history of the U.S. (and necessary European background) from the age of settlement through Vietnam, concentrating on the roots of the armed forces in the society and the impact of change, social, political, and technological on the role and functions of the armed forces
936	This course serves as the foundation for the RN to BS program introducing the RN student to the philosophical and theoretical framework of the Baldwin Nursing Program at Siena College. The caring science curriculum is introduced and concepts that contribute to the professional development of the nurse are reviewed. The student is introduced to the role(s) and role models of professional nursing within the current social, economic, psychological, political and philosophical context. Historical and contemporary social forces that are key to the current role of the professional nurse are explored. Principles of the professional nurse's role and promotion of the profession are highlighted in this course. The students will begin the development of a professional ePortfolio for use throughout the curriculum and in the professional practice settings.
937	This course introduces students to the various formulations that social and political philosophies have taken as humans attempted to shape their cultural lives in terms of some idea of the good. Since ""justice"" is often the formulation for the highest social/political good, the course will emphasize this concern. Major philosophers from
938	An examination of the person and teachings of Paul as these are reflected in his letters, with consideration of how Paul's contributions were developed by subsequent generations of Christians in such works as the Pastoral Epistles, the Book of Acts, and other early Christian literature.
939	This course is a directed research and writing course in which American Studies majors use their interdisciplinary background and their chosen themes to create an extensive, original research project. This course is typically taken during the first semester of the senior year. Permission of
940	The Program Student Learning Outcomes, provide the framework for this course and units. This course will require the student to analyze and apply a variety of high order concepts as they relate to the students current and future practice. In this course students will continue to build upon the curriculum concepts by formulating a variety of responses, plans and scenarios demonstrating the student's ability to make sound, evidence-based clinical judgments. It is the expectation that the student will be also be able to interconnect concepts and evaluate how concepts work together to make holistic patientcentered plans of care. For this expectation, all of the concepts and exemplars will be included as part of the syllabus. Students will detail ways to improve their future clinical decisions and exact changes in culture and policy in their future roles as Registered Professional Nurses. Students will utilize reflective writing to differentiate between the roles and responsibilities of the student nurse and the novice nurse, demonstrating a full understanding of their current and future roles and the expectations and responsibilities of those roles. Course objectives will be met through a variety of required assignments including online discussion forums, individual writing assignments and concept mapping.
941	This course is the first in the two-course sequence in Intermediate Accounting. It provides a comprehensive review of the accounting process, a study of the conceptual basis of accounting, and a review of the preparation and understanding of classified financial statements. The course will focus on the study of contemporary accounting theory and the application of generally accepted accounting principles to various specific topics and financial
942	This course is intended for students who have completed or nearly completed their cognitive science coursework. Students will apply previously acquired analytic, computational, mathematical, and experimental skills to independent research projects. Class time will be devoted to descriptions of innovative and useful research methods, discussions of recent developments in cognitive science, and student presentations of their research projects. Topics may include representation and computation, learning and problem solving, and the nature of mind, perception, intention, emotion, and conciousness, as well as attempts to model human cognition. The principle obligatiopns of the seminar participants are to lead two class discussions, to actively participate in all classes, and to conduct a full-scale research project and to present the results from this research semester.
943	Department approval, junior or senior status, and a minimum overall GPA of 3.5 are all required. Consult department for specific topics. Students may repeat this course for credit provided the selected subject matter has not previously been taken for credit.
944	Examples of mathematical modeling will be applied in the context of biological problems drawn from ecology, evolution, epidemiology, public health, economics, biochemical reactions, and medicine. Analysis techniques will draw from differential equations, probability, optimization, and game theory, with the overarching theme of model development and implementation, analysis and result interpretation.
945	This is a foundation course that encompasses written, oral, and interpersonal communication skills in formal and informal settings. Fundamental communication theories, principles and practices are studied from an international business perspective. Applications in business writing, oral presentations, and interpersonal skills provide students with important communications skills required in today's
946	This course introduces the Registered Nurse to evidence-based practice and the process required to translate and integrate research into their nurisng practice. Emphasis is on critique and application of evidence affecting nurse-sensitive quality indicators. Published research studies are critically analyzed with regard to implications for clinical practice. Concepts reviewed include the scientific method, the research process, the use of informatics for a literature search, qualitative and quantitative research methodology, research ethics and quality improvement. QSEN competencies are integrated throughout this course. Students will discuss the links between quality improvement, evidence based practice and moving patient care to quality outcomes. Prerequisites: ATDV-110 and NURS-300.
947	This course is an introduction to the theory of curves and surfaces in the three-dimensional Euclidean space. Topics include curve arc length, curvature, torsion, the Frenet n-frame, the first and second fundamental forms of a surface, normal and principal curvatures, Gaussian and the mean curvatures, isometries of surfaces, and geodesic curves on a
948	An introductory course concentrating on how new venture opportunities are identified and assessed. Special attention is given to exploring the unique role of entrepreneurship and innovation in society. Course content focuses both on understanding the historical, social, and ethical context of entrepreneursip and in seeking, assessing and developing new venture opportunities. Students will learn alternative approaches to finding new venture oportunities and asessing the viability of those opportunities.
949	Maladaptive behaviors are studied from theoretical and research perspectives. Topics include the psychoses, anxiety disorders, personality, social and sexual disturbances, disorders of childhood, organic mental disorders, and substance abuse. Therapeutic interventions and legal issues are also considered.
950	A continuation of MATH --191. In addition to oral presentations, studenst will present the results of their work in written form. Elementary logic and techniques of mathematical proof will be introduced and employed by the students in their written presentations.
951	Event Management is an elective course for students choosing to major or minor in the Management discipline and is a required course for students seeking to earn a Business concentration in Project Management. Students learn the management techniques and strategies required for successful planning, promotion, coordination, implementation and evaluation of special events. This course integrates practical/experiential work with academic work to provide students the opportunity to develop competencies required for producing successful and sustainable events.
952	A required internship for students pursuing the Certificate in Public History. The internship experience will provide students with an active learning opportunity, hands-on research, and exposure to public history careers. Students will work with a local organization engaged in public history work to complete a Capstone project that puts history to work in the community. The Capstone project will be determined, coordinated, and supervised by the Certificate director in collaboration with the intern's worksite supervisor. Prerequisites: Any HIST 100level course and History 278 Public History). Permission of instructor required.
953	This course introduces students to fundamental economic concepts and theory, including demand, supply, and the formation of equilibrium prices in product and resource markets. In addition, the course offers an introduction to applied fields such as industrial organization (market structures), labor economics, unionism, international trade, and market failure.
954	This class is a hands-on group project, directed by a faculty member, in some applied aspect of environmental
955	Time series data occur when describing trends or when tracking internal organizational pratices which may have internal structures such autocorrelation, seasonal variation, and cyclical trends. Techniques for exploring this type of data include regression, autoregressive modeling, random walks, smoothing and decomposition of time series, and qualitative techniques. Prerequisites: QBUS-210.
956	Research is the objective process of collecting and analyzing data in order to aid in the marketing and managerial decision making process. Major topics include survey and sampling methodologies, questionnaire construction, observation and experimental methodology plus secondary data gathering. Students engage in research projects, and interpret statistical analysis of output from a computer statistical package.
957	Laboratory or field research of an original nature under the direction of a faculty member. Designed for students seeking an intensive research experience. Arranged by mutual consent of student and faculty member. Credit for independent research may be earned in more than one semester. Written permission of instructor required. 
958	Today's leaders must navigate across cultures and geographical boundaries to generate sustainable value for business and society. In this course students will learn how to apply innovative leadership techniques in a complex global system to deliver sustainable, economic, social, and environmental transformation. They will learn the skills and mental frameworks essential for adaptive and ethical global leaders. The focus will be on how innovative and sustainable business practices can make a difference inside and outside organizations.
959	Consideration of some topic in Religious Studies selected on the basis of faculty and student interest. Designed for majors and those with advance preparation in Religious Studies. may be taken more than once with different content. Consult Fall and Spring schedules for specific topics. 
960	The course will introduce the student to the unique ways in which theatre has reflected American society. Through class discussion, film, selected readings and attendance at both professional and academic productions, the student will examine the various means through which theatre addresses issues of race, gender, culture and politics in ways that are both entertaining and instructive. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab Fee.
961	This course introduces logic, set theory and techniques of mathematical proof. The main emphasis of the course is on composing logically correct mathematical arguments. Oral and written presentation of solutions and proofs are a required part of this course,
962	Focus will be placed on clients with multisystem problems. Critical thinking and advanced psychomotor skills will be practiced to meet the needs of clients across the lifespan. These skills will be applied in the laboratory practicum, hospital and/or community settings. Emphasis will be placed on the role of the RN in the caring environment
963	This course will focus on current, prominent, and clinically applicable theories of intimate relationahips. Students will be exposed to the writings of theorists, clinicians, and researchers who have examined relational dynamics and the factors that contribute to relationship satisfaction or dissatisfaction. Included will be an examination of hypothesized and empirically estabished gender differences in intimate relationship functioning. Clinical applications of theories and case studies will be emphasized.
964	Punishment and Society: Incarceration and Death Penalty is an inquiry into punishment and penal institutions.Students will be introduced to theoretical approaches in penalty. Focusing on hyper mass incarceration and the death penalty, students will examine questions like: How does penalization occur across social divisions of race, class, gender, ethnicity, nationality? What is the connection between class control and penal regimes? How do we explain death penalty in the age of abolition?
965	This course is designed to give History majors an opportunity to experience history related activities beyond the normal classroom. To complete the requirement, students must consult their advisor about an experience and complete the departmental forms. Qualifying to complete the requirement are history related internships, study abroad, travel courses, social studies student teaching, presentation of a paper to a conference or symposium such as sponsored by the Omicron Xi chapter of Phi Alpha Theta, participation in the History Department's Oral History Project, Model UN, Gettysburg Semester, pursuit of the Certificate in Revolutionary Era Studies, or 15 hours of a history activity at a historical society or institution approved by the department. The course is P/F. See advisor for more
966	Examination of the idea of nature in historical and contemporary perspective, including theories of humanity's place in and transformation of the natural world. Some points of emphasis are the legacy of ancient cosmology, the development of the scientific view of nature, modern technology,
967	An introduction to modern solid-state physics, including lattice structure, lattice vibrations, thermal properties, electron theory of metals and semiconductors, magnetic properties, and superconductivity. Three hours of lecture a week for one semester.
968	This course introduces the student to the field of adulthood using a developmental approach as a systemic framework. The focus of the courses on issues that involve both change and continuity across early, middle and later years of the adult life cycle. The interaction of psychological, sociological and biological factors as well as the interaction between individuals and their environment is emphasized. In order to provide a comprehensive look at behavioral age changes, various theories and models of development and aging are discussed.
969	This course provides an opportunity for students to pursue independent study at a graduate level directed by a participating faculty member. A qualified student, with the consent of the program director, Dean of the School of Business, and a participating faculty member, may pursue further research and study on a particular topic in Business. The number of credits to be awarded (1 to 3) will be submitted to the Dean of the School of Business for approval. The student will meet with the participating faculty member for periodic discussion and will submit satisfactory written reports and assignments to the participating faculty member. The student will be expected to comply with all School of Business guidelines concerning such projects. Independent study may be taken twice for credit. Prerequisites: MGMT 520 and QBUS 520. Permission of Instructor.
970	This course surveys Native American creation myths, oral history, poetry and prose by such authors as Black Elk, N. Scott Momaday, Louise Erdrick, James Welch, Leslie Marmon Silko, Sherman Alexie and Linda Hogan. Students will study the literature within its cultural and historical context. The course may include films, guest lectures and a field
971	A continuation of ARAB 201. This course is for students who have completed the equivalent of three semesters of college Arabic. 
972	This course explores the use of improvisation as a tool for the further development of the art of making dance. Students will explore the freedom of movement and with it, experimentation. The class will help the students gain an increased sensitivity to time, space, energy, motion, oneself and other people. Students will develop the skill to take an idea, concept or feeling and express it non-verbally Students will learn to improvise with their bodies as an instrument, with abstract elements of dance and with the
973	This course will consider a specific topic selected for intensive scrutiny and discussion as a foundation for student research projects, critical analyses, or topical reviews. Consult Fall and Spring schedules for specific topics. May be taken more than once with different contents.
974	An introduction to the object-oriented design paradigm with an emphasis on problem solving, algorithm development, and Lab fee.
975	A study of music designed to develop the student's appreciation and knowledge of music as an expression of human culture from the Romantic Period to the present. A prior music course is highly recommended, or consult instructor.
976	Collecting accurate and representative field data is essential for many environmental investigations and research projects. In this course, students learn the theory of and techniques for field data collection, analysis and interpretation. Topics include making streamflow measurements, air quality sampling, conducting bird surveys, and using GPS. Students will design and conduct individual and group field
977	A study of the evolutionary relationships, ecology, physiology, and morphology of the invertebrates. Invertebrates represent 98% of all animals on Earth, making this course an exploration of animal diversity in the broadest sense; it is impossible to fully understand ecological systems or the tree of life without a foundation in invertebrate biology. The laboratory includes live observations as well as dissection of characteristic members of each phylum and experiments dealing with physiology and behavior. Some labs will involve field work; weekend field trips and overnight trips are possible. Lab fee.
978	The experience of adolescence as a distinct period of development is examined. Topics include biological processes and their psychosocial significance including health problems. Issues related to adolescent sexuality are also examined including sexual attitudes and behavior and gender roles. Intellectual changes during adolescence and their effects on social cognition, moral reasoning, and political thought are described. Selected family issues and relationships as influences on adolescent development are considered as well as peer group relationships, friendships, and other social relationships. The issue of identity formation is examined in detail. The effects of school experiences on academic achievement and career development are also discussed as are adjustment problems and disturbances during adolescence.
979	Field study for science students in the early stages of in the student an awareness of how classroom concepts are converted into applications of value in today's society through participation in ongoing applied or basic research or development programs in a business or industry. The students will work in an area covered by the department of Biology, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Computer Science, Mathematics, Environmental Studies, or Physics and will be supervised by a professional in the field. Students will be required to keep a log of their activities, and prepare a summary report and presentation of their experience at the end of the semester. No student may apply more than 6 credits of SCDV-250 credit towards their degree, and no more than 3 credits of SCDV-250 may be taken in a semester. This course is offered on a pass/fail grading system only.
980	An intermediate level treatment of the theories of consumer behavior and demand, production and cost, the firm and market organization, and factor markets. Microeconomic topics might include price control, pollution, efficiency, equity, taxes, subsidies, and government regulation.
981	The study of crimes, e.g. murder, manslaughter, conspiracy, accomplice liability, burglary, theft. The case law approach
982	This course is designed to further develop the concepts within four themes of the individual, health, nursing, and healthcare environment. This course will emphasize advancing concepts of the complex patient. The clinical component is focused on the development of a broader perspective of the nurse's role using evidence and sound judgment when implementing care to patients with changing situations. Upon completion, students will be able to demonstrate the knowledge, and skills necessary to provide safe, quality, and holistic care to patients with advanced alterations in health status. Students will function as a patient and family advocate providing teaching across various situations.
983	This course will examine the complex and diverse nature of sports marketing from a strategic marketing perspective. Specific emphasis will be placed on the congingency framework for strategic sports marketing, with attention to market selection, marketing mix decisions, and the implementation and control of the strategic sorts marketing process. Additionally the course will examine marketing through sports; using sports as a platform for developing strategies and tactics to sell nonsports products.
984	A study of the vertebrates with emphasis on life cycles, adaptations, ecology, behavior, and taxonomic relationships. Includes studies of local species in their natural habitats, laboratory exercises, and individual projects or research papers. At least one weekend field trip is scheduled. (Same as BIOL-230.) Lab fee
985	An introductory course discussing (multivariable) calculus basic probability, and decision theory with a focus on business applications. Topics include several variable function theory, partial differentiation, optimization problems and LaGrange multipliers, Taylor polynomials, infinite series. Basic probability and its application to payoffs and losses, utility, decision trees and sensitivity analysis. Bayesian analysis, inference and decision making. Prerequisites: QBUS 110 or MATH 110.
986	The course examines the history, cultural, political, economic forces which inform the politics of China and its relations with Japan, Taiwan, North and South Korea and the rest of the world. The course will examine such issues such as economic development, international trade, human rights, political organization, environment, and national security which impact these countries' domestic and foreign policies.
987	This course is designed to familiarize students with a broad array of classic and current theory and research that are studied primariliy by psychologists in the area of social psychology. Students will become familiar with the topics of social cognition, social perception, attitudes and attitude change, love, hate (prejudice), conformity, compliance, obedience, and influence. In addition to becoming familiar with theory and research findings, the course emphasizes ways in which the information can be useful to students in their daily lives.
988	This is an introductory course to the scientific principles that govern the structure and properties of materials, including metals, ceramics, semiconductors, and polymers. Emphasis is placed on how the underlying bonding and atomic structure determine the physical properties of the material (mechanical, electrical, thermal, optical) at multiple length scales, from atomic packing to micron scale. The course reviews practical applications to engineering materials and aspects of modern nanomaterials, from the viewpoint of thermodynamics and physical kinetics.
989	The Washington Journalism Semester provides a seminar which offers an intensive scrutiny of the gathering and presentation of news. Reporters, news executives, news sources, and others share their ideas and experiences. Students study the workings of large and small newspapers and broadcast news bureaus. Meetings are generally four to six times per week and may be held at field sites as well as on campus.
990	This course is designed to introduce and further develop the concepts within the three domains (themes) of the individual, health and nursing. Emphasis is placed upon the concepts of: acid/base, cognition, comfort, digestion, elimination, fluid and electrolyte balance, health and wellness, infection, metabolism, medication safety, mobility, mood and affect, nutrition, oxygenation, perfusion, sensory, stress, thermoregulation and tissue integrity. This course will introduce the student to nursing skills and clinical practice within patient care settings while further developing clinical decision making.
991	By expanding the student's understanding of the financial system to include an international perspective, this course introduces the student to the role of international considerations within the development of corporate policy. This course examines the determination of exchange rates and operation of exchange markets. The application of these ideas will be extended to the firm's management of foreign exchange exposure, cash management, and capital budgeting. Multinational banking and political risk management will also be
992	This course will examine various components of the Criminal Justice System: law enforcement, courts and corrections. Students will adopt a critical approach to the understanding of crime and justice in America by looking at the intersection between race, class, and gender.
993	A continuation of LATN-101. 
994	This course examines a selection of literature written during the medieval and early modern periods, or before about 1800 C.E. Cultural contexts and diverse critical approaches will be emphasized. Reading will be selected from the writings of authors such as Defoe, Kempe, Chaucer, Montague, Shakespeare, Bacon, Rolle, Swift and Aphra Behn. Anonymous works such as Judith, saints' lives, The Second Shepard's Play and Dream of the Rood may also be selected.
995	A study of the intellectual roots of modern psychology, including contributions from philosophy and physiology: Major figures in the history of psychology are discussed as well as their schools of thought: Structuralism, Functionalism, Gestalt Psychology, Behaviorism, and Psychoanalysis. Additional topics included are the history of clinical psychology (views and treatment of mental illness), and the rise of mental testing.
996	Emphasis placed on vocabulary building and oral proficiency. Continuation of GERM-301
997	The evolution and development of Rusian society and currents of thought from Kievan Rus to the present.
998	A study of applied statistical methodology using the R program. Topics from among the following will be covered: experimental design and analysis of variance, multiple regression, and nonparametric statistical methods.
999	Political and cultural development of modern France from the French Revolution to the present.
1000	This course will explore writing topics not usually offered as part of the regular curriculum. Specific topics will be announced during the semester previous to the one in which the course will be offered. The course may be taken twice with different topics.
1001	This academically oriented course will be taught in French and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Frenchspeaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/ research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost varies each semester. This course will fulfill a language requirement and count toward a major or minor in French. Permission of instructor is required.
1002	An introduction to the Bible, using the tools of contemporary biblical scholarship, including literary and historical criticism, archaeology, and philology. The course will examine the history of the biblical text and the biblical canon, the relationship between the Bible and its companion literatures, and the ways in which biblical texts are interpreted by different Christian and Jewish religious communities.
1003	In this course, each student will be required to read a variety of texts representing contrasting educational philosophies. The purpose of the course is to promote awareness of the existence of numerous philosophies of education, to demonstrate the practical educational implications derived from each theory, and to assist each student in the formulation of an educational philosophy suitable to the needs of his/her professional and/or personal life.
1004	This course provides the intellectual foundation upon which the social characteristics and implications of health and health care are understood in the United States and other nations from a global perspective. This foundation is based on an analysis of key social factors and actors including health and illness behavior, the sick role, mental illness, physicians, nurses, alternative practitioners and practices as well as the role of the hospital and medical terminology.
1005	This course studies elements of linear algebra with an emphasis on applications. Topics covered include matrices, systems of equations, finite dimensional vector spaces, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
1006	A topics course similar to PHYS-010, except the topics offered have not been approved to fulfill the School of Science Core requirement for School of Liberal Arts and School of Business students. Students may take this course more than once with different content. Not open to Physics majors. Does not count towards College Core.
1007	Alexander succeeded to the throne of Macedonia (Greece) at the age of twenty. He quickly led his united Greek forces eastward and within twelve years his empire stretched from Greece in the west to India in the east. Today, Alexander the Great is recognized by military experts as having been one of the most gifted military strategists in history. First, close attention will be paid to Alexander the Great's military career but we shall also examine Alexander the man; his character, motives, and philosophical goals. Second, his early death in 323 BCE marked the birth of the Hellenistic Age, an age that profoundly influenced the history of the western world through its contact with the Roman empire. We shall devote approximately half the course to the study of the achievements of the Hellenistic Age, especially the Hellenistic Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt, whose last ruler was Cleopatra VII. A variety of resources will be used including primary and secondary sources, together with slide presentations.
1008	This course examines the short story as a distinct, culturally diverse literary genre. By reading a variety of short fiction, students will learn the history, the artistry, and the versatility of the genre. Special emphasis will be given to critical reading and writing
1009	A philosophical study of ethical questions such as, how are we to live? What kind of people should we become? Typically examines virtue ethics, Kantianism, natural law theory, justice and rights theories, utilitarianism. Applies theories to contemporary moral and political concerns.
1010	In this studio art course, students will build a series of short videos prompted by topics and genres relating to the history and evolution of video art and experimental film. Students will have access to a range of digital cameras and learn how to edit in Adobe Premiere Pro. The class wll also learn Dragonframe to create a collaborative stop-motion video. The course goal is to become familiar with the history of this new art medium, and to gain experience in making, critiquing, and exhibiting one's own original videos No experience in video or sound production is necessary. Prerequisite: CREA 204 (ARTS, FILM, MUMD)
1011	Study of an advanced level topic. Subject matters will be made public in the official announcements which precede registration. This course may be taken more than once with different content. 
1012	The general physics sequence provides an introduction to those basic concepts of physics that form the foundation of all the natural sciences. The first course is mainly an introduction to classical mechanics where the fundamental laws of Newtonian mechanics are applied to a variety of simple systems. Some elementary thermodynamics is also included. Throughout the course, the conservation laws serve as unifying phyiscal principles. Mathematics, a powerful tool in the understanding of natural phenomena, assumes its essential role. Computers are used in the laboratories. Three hours of lecture and one three-hour laboratory period a week for one semester. Lab fee.
1013	History of women in the United States from the pre-Columbian era to the present. Students will focus on issues, of gender difference in the history of American business, labor, politics, culture, and social life, as well as considering differences between women with regard to race, ethnicity, class, and age. (same as WSTU-350)
1014	The emergence of modern England during the reigns of the Tudors, Stuarts and first four Hanoverians, with emphasis on political, social and economic changes.
1015	This course explores security and control issues from an accounting and auditing perspective related to technology as it impacts business applications. Relevant technology and systems issues will be discussed. Topics may include security and control related to e-commerce, the internet,
1016	This course is designed to prepare the student for entry into practice by exploring issues of nursing practice, roles and responsibilities. The role of the nurse as a manager of patient care will be discussed. A 63 hour clinical experiential learning experience is required. Students will also prepare for the steps of entry into practice such as resume writing, interviewing, and applying for a license and the licensing exam.
1017	A continuation of SPAN-201 
1018	This is an intensive exploration of some great ideas of mathematics. We ask and try to answer questions like: ""Can we count the real numbers?""; ""What is the fourth dimension?"", ""How can an infinitely long curve exist in a finite space?"". This course is a challenging one, suitable for students who have an above average high school record.
1019	This course will introduce students to the vocabulary, interpretive strategies and collaborative processes essential to developing their own ideas of interrelationships among various disciplines in the creative arts. Attendance at arts events outside of class is required.
1020	This course considers recent Irish writing in the context of the historical, political, religious, economic, and cultural influences that have shaped that literature. Readings will be drawn from a variety of backgrounds and genres, and may include works by William Trevor, Conor McPherson, Eavan Boland, Nuala Ni Dhomhnaill, and Brian Friel.
1021	This course presents the legal concepts governing the conduct of business in the United States from a managerial perspective including contracts, torts, agency and government regulations. The course is designed to equip managers and other business persons with an understanding of the legal process as it applies to managerial and other business problems. As legal rules frequently change, the emphasis will be developing independent critical thinking skills.
1022	This course enables students to earn academic credit while gaining work experience in broadcast and print media, public relations, and other communications fields. Interns must complete 120 hours of on-site work as well as fulfilling the academic components of the course, including regular written assignments. Evaluation will be conducted by the Department Internship Director in consultation with the worksite supervisor. The internship is open to Junior and Senior English majors and minors or Writing minors who have completed at least 12 hours in English and/or Writing and have an index of at least 3.0 in those courses. Permission of the Internship Director is required for admission to the
1023	This capstone course is designed to give the student the opportunity to assimilate the knowledge learned in the Health Studies core curriculum. The student engages in case study assignments that reflect application, synthesis and evaluation of concepts and issues that have been studies throughout the Health Studies program. Current issues in healthcare will be explored using case studies drawn from the fields of health sciences, administration and policy. This is a multidisciplinary course, emphasizing problem solving, communication, teamwork, leadership and moral consideration. The course will be taught by professors from a variety of disciplines, but always with an emphasis on interprofessional collaboration and integration. (Registration by permission of Instructor only)
1024	A survey of the history of Latin America from the 1820s to the present.
1025	This course provides an introduction to the theory and skills necessary to critically examine mediated messages in the digital age. Students explore methods to analyze the credibility of content generated in both traditional media outlets and on-line publications to promote accuracy and reliability in their research and writing. 
1026	A continuation of Mathematical Analysis I.
1027	Digital technology has empowered customers, while producting massive amounts of data, revolutionizing the processes through which organizations attract and retain customers. In this course students will learn how to create and use consumers' web interactions with brands and measure those interactions using appropriate analytic tools. Students will apply marketing analytics to real-world marketing problems. Prerequisite: MRKT 550
1028	This course will focus on data collection, data presentation summarizing and describing data, probability distributions, statistical inference, hypothesis testing,and simple linear regression. Students will use computer algebra systems and spreadsheets as tools for performing statistical calculation creating tables, and generating graphical representations of information.
1029	A survey of American music from the seventeenth century to the present. Attention will be given to the contributions of the early settlers, the influence of folk traditions, the contributions of ethnic and minority groups, and the major lines of development in symphonic music.
1030	The application of mathematics has many uses in diverse fields, including biology, business, physics and computer science, to name a few. A selection of these mathematic applications will be introduced, with potential topics ranging from Operations Research & Optimization, Game Theory, Dynamical Systems, Control Theory, Solitons and Nonlinear Wave Equations, Cellular Automata, among others.
1031	This course introduces students to the political science study of political advertising and marketing, with additional focus on preparing students to work in the field of campaign politics. Emphases include the influence and pervasiveness of negative advertising, targeted advertising, online advertising, and the crafting of political messages for maximal influence.
1032	Health psychology is a basic research and clinical practice area within psychology that focuses on understanding the scientific relationships between social, behavioral, and psychological processes and health. Topics will include health beliefs and health-enhancing behaviors, the effects of stress and coping on illness and disease recovery, adjustment to chronic or terminal illnesses, and clinical interventions such as pain management, behavioral management of diseases like HIV-spectrum illness and cancer, the relationship between the health care provider and patient, and cross-gender and cross-cultural variations in prevention and development of disease and in the factors related to
1033	This course will familiarize the student with the people, events and ideas that have inspired the Franciscan Movement. Students will come to understand the the historical development of the Franciscan movement in all its diversity with the context of the High Middle Ages, in comparison with and in contrast to earlier forms of religious life within the Christian tradition. Topics may include the role of Franciscans in the development of western art, in higher education, in politics, in the age of exploration, and in the development of Christian Prereq:HIST 101,102,103,104,105 or 190 and RELG 101,121,
1034	This sx-hour workshop is designed to provide the student and neglect according to NYS Family Court Act and Social Services Law; situations requiring reporting of suspected cases of child abuse maltreatment; a description of what constitutes reasonable cause to suspect child abuse or maltreatment; proper procedure for making a report of suspected child abuse; actions mandated reporters may take to protect a child in addition to filing a child abuse report; legal responsibilities in reporting that teachers have as care providers; legal protections afforded reporters and consequences for failing to report; distinctions among various behavioral and physical characteristics of abusive parents and caretakers; physical and behavioral indicators of physical abuse, maltreatment, and neglect; contrast between physical and behavioral indicators of sexual abuse; child abduction; and general principles for interviewing or interacting with child victims. The worshop also provides the training in School Violence Prevention and Intervention. Fee required.
1035	Gain an integrated perspective of the business functions and foundational skills for making informed decisions in organizations. Learn how accounting, business analytics, information technology, economics, finance, management, and marketing work together to achieve organizational objectives. Begin developing the personal and career skills that contribute to success at Siena and beyond, including communication, teamwork, and leadership.
1036	Problems of business operating in a competitive economic systems are confronted with governmental regulation at all levels. Particular attention is paid to federal legislation. Current legislation on consumer protection anti-trust, antimerger, equal employment, OSHA, and environmental protection is analyzed.
1037	An introduction to the major forms, techniques, and better understanding and enjoyment of the art of music. Attendance at designated music performances will be required.
1038	This course is a continuation of the study of mathematical structures most frequently encountered in Computer Science. Topics covered include deterministic and non-deterministic finite automata, regular, context-free and other languages, push-down automata, grammars, Turing machines, computational complexity, and in particular the P vs. NP problem. Offered in Spring Semester. Cross-listed as MATH-350.
1039	This interdisciplinary course introduces students to the geology, flora and fauna, history, literature and environmental politics of New York's Adirondack Mountains. Following a historical survey, the course looks at contemporary environmental policy issues: acid rain, second home development, invasive species, over-use of popular areas, among others. The course includes either a weekend camping trip or several day-trips (one of which may be
1040	An introductory level studio course covering the practice history and theory of two-dimensional design. Problems related to basic color theory, abstraction, and the organization of space will be explored. Students will study the Elements of Art and Design, and their use throughout the history of visual art and in contemporary visual material. Studio fee.
1041	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Accounting at an intermediate level. Prerequisite course may be required. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. It may be taken more for credit multiple times for different topics. 
1042	A basic survey of the visual arts with the intention of developing the student's appreciation and knowledge of art as an expression of human culture from the 15th century to the present.
1043	A critical analysis of the several approaches to the study of behavior, including the comparative method. Examples will be drawn from representative levels of human and animal behavior. Students will participate in a project or term paper
1044	This course, taught in English, includes the study of selected subtitled films, which will be utilized as a visual and aural source to learn about social justice issues in the Spanish-speaking world. Students will learn about the history, politics, and social issues of Spanish speaking populations in Latin America, Spain and the United States. The geographical emphasis will shift among the various Spanish-speaking regions of the world. Possible broad themes include memory, oppression, self-discovery, immigration, exile, identity, assimilation, women's rights, dictatorship, GLBTQ issues, and indigenous rights. With its roots in the ideals of the Franciscan tradition, this course demonstrates how to critically analyze social justice issues in cultural settings depicted in films from the Spanish-speaking world from a variety of perspectives. Does not count towards Spanish major or minor. (Same as SPAN-025) decisions they will face during their lifetimes. It will provide students with the knowledge to analyze how decisions concerning topics such as money management, tax planning, consumer credit, home financing, insurance, and financial planning, will impact their personal financial goals. In addition, this course also focuses on raising awareness of the adverse impacts personal financial decisions can have on others in society. Topics featured include:environmentally-friendly investments, socially responsible mutual funds, the role of charitable giving
1045	A broad treatment of labor-management relations in both the private and public sectors. The course will encompass: the historical development of the labor movement; modern society and industrial relations; management philosophy regarding employee relations and organized labor; labor legislation and its social economic, and political impact; collective bargaining, its scope and process; contract administration principles and practices; and labor relations issues and trends. Major emphasis will be placed on: the How-to and Experimental activities via projects, case studies, professional and
1046	A general examination of the social, political, economic and environmental developments of the indigenous African states including their response to Eastern and Western contacts from pre-history to 1875.
1047	Students may design a course of study in consultation with a faculty member. This topic, including a bibliography, must be submitted in writing and approved by the professor and the department chair. May be repeated twice with different topics, for up to 6 credits.
1048	A study of the military history of the U.S. (and necessary European background) from the age of settlement through Vietnam, concentrating on the roots of the armed forces in the society and the impact of change, social, political, and technological on the role and functions of the armed forces of the U.S.
1049	Work in local historical societies, museums, archival and resource centers, etc. Open to second semester Juniors and Seniors who have completed a minimum of 12 credit hours in history, including U.S. history, and who present a GPA of 3.0 or higher in history and 2.9 or higher overall. Permission of the Director of American Studies and the Head of the History Department is required. participating institution, and the Director of American Studies or a member of the History Department chosen by the Department in consultation with the Director of American Studies. (Cross-listed as AMST-480)
1050	This course will cover a selected topic at a graduate level. This course may be taken multiple times with different topics. See the sample syllabus for an example of a topic-advanced labor economics. Prerequisites: ECON 550 or permission of instructor required.
1051	Designed for students who are pursing a career in one of the medical fields, this course will focus on the study of the Latin and Greek roots that form the basis of most medical and scientific vocabulary. The practical aim of the course is to allow the student who is preparing for one of the medical professions to enhance greatly their acquisition of medical terminology. This course will also investigate the origin, ideas, and practice of ancient science and medicine.
1052	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Finance at an introductory level with no prerequisites. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. This course is not intended for students within the School of Business and may not be taken for credit by students enrolled in a major offered by the School of Business. School of Arts and School of Science students may take this course for elective credit only. It may be taken more than once with different content. 
1053	A study of ecological processes in marine environments of the tropics. Lectures will emphasize the application of basic ecological principles to life in the ocean, then focus on characteristics of marine habitats in the tropics and of the groups of organisms that occur there. The laboratory portion of the course will involve two weeks of intensive field work at a tropical marine laboratory. Written permission of instructor required. There is a separate field trip fee. Because this field experience occurs after Commencement, seniors may not use this course to meet graduation requirements. They may take this course if a.) they are willing to miss commencement, and b.) they meet all graduation requirements without this course. As an alternative, seniors may postpone graduation until the next commencement. Same as
1054	This course will use an area of research, theory or practice to apply and extend basic principles of Computer Science. The course may be taken more than once with different
1055	Business Strategy provides students with the ability to understand strategy insights, reflect on strategic issues, and practice using strategy tools needed to become strategic thinkers. Coursework is concerned with decisions and actions that affect the performance and survival of business enterprises. Students will reflect on the purpose of organizations, their governance, and their role towards diverse stakeholders and society in general. This required a constant monitoring of a business's external and internal organizational environment to become aware of the changing dynamics of any business situation. Business Strategy educates managers about the information, analysis, organizational processes, and business judgement required to devise strategies, define firm boundaries, maximize longterm profits and survival in the face of uncertainty and competition and equip the organization to work for the health and wellbeing of society and the planet. Prerequisite: MGMT 550
1056	This course is an introduction to the mathematical and algorithmic principles of computer graphics as well as graphical applications programming. Topics covered include two and three-dimensional transformations, three-dimensional viewing, shading models, curves and surfaces, ray tracing, texture mapping, and algorithmic issues. In the laboratory these topics will be explored using graphics software tools
1057	The major movements of 20th century European thought such as phenomenology, hermeneutics, structuralism, deconstruction, feminism, and psychoanalysis. Major figures include Husserl, Heidegger, Arendt, Gadamer, Levinas, Foucault, Derrida, Deleuze, Irigarary, and Kristeva. Typical questions pertain to problems of consciousness, language, embodiment, power, and otherness.
1058	A study of the aesthetics and mechanics of designing costumes and makeup for the stage. Students will utilize design and drafting skills developed in class to create costume renderings and patterns as well as makeup plots and palettes based on the interpretation of a theatrical text. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab Fee.
1059	Independent study or research of an advanced topic of the student's choice in an area related to community engaged scholarship. Supervised by a faculty member with expertise in the topic's subject area. When appropriate, other capstone courses, independent studies or other honors theses may be substituted. Permission of ACE Director required. ATTR: ARTS, ACOM
1060	The functions of organ systems of invertebrates and vertebrates will be covered with emphasis on the interdependent relationships of organ systems and their regulatory mechanisms. Topics covered in lecture and laboratory are the nervous, muscular, circulatory, respiratory and excretory systems, as well as principles of environmental physiology including discussion of ionic, osmotic, and thermal regulation. Lab fee.
1061	Web Design is a hands-on laboratory based course covering the design and implementation of websites using markup languages, style sheets, and various software tools and applications. Lecture will cover the history and development of the Internet, the World Wide Web, and the core technologies used to implement modern websites. Students will learn about the importance of semantic markup, language standardization, and separation of content and appearance. The course will focus on web interface design using forms, techniques for integrating a wide range of media formats, and design fundamentals needed in implementing effective, user-friendly websites. (Same as CSIS-180.) Lab fee. Computer fee.
1062	Web Application Development is a hands-on laboratory based course covering the design and implementation of dynamic practice to apply and extend basic principles of Computer Science. The course may be taken more than once with
1063	This course looks at a number of books written for non-economists, and expects students to critically analyze their economic content. The required books are, with a single exception, chosen by the students enrolled in the class. In addition, students are expected to write and publish newspaper editorials on economic topics of their choosing. This course is very reading intensive, and emphasizes communication skills.
1064	Through workshop, discussion, observations and viewing and analyzing professional documentaries, students are acquainted with the process of using a camera to produce audio and visual images that record and interpret existing events. The course will exmine artistic methods for the production of documentaries as well as the social and political aspects of documentary film. Laboratory sessions are devoted to production and postproduction activities. This course is designed for students with no previous experience or those with some experience but no training. Lab fee.
1065	An overview of the religious traditions of various native peoples such as Native Americans, Africans and Pacific Islanders. The role of religious experience in the cultural, historical and social worlds of these peoples is considered in their historical and modern settings. The course will pay special attention to the contributions of these peoples to the religious and cultural worlds of modern times.
1066	Managerial Economics applies economic theory to decision making under uncertainty and analyzes issues faced by managers of an organization. This course provides a structural framework for analyzing the internal goals and operations of an organization and the external environment in which the organization operates. Applying economic theory to organizational decisions can increase the rationality and predictability of a changing global competitive landscape. The course focuses on how decisions affect issues associated with economic and social justice, and sustainability. Topics include economic problem solving and decision making, consumer behavior, producer behavior, cost structures, strategic behavior and uncertainty, and organizational structure .
1067	A critical examination of the development of the major schools of economic thought from the seventeenth through the early twentieth centuries, with particular attention on mercantilism, classicism, marginalism, socialism, and neoclassicism. This course is primarily a reading program and is restricted to junior and senior level students from all
1068	This course is designed to introduce and further develop the concepts within the three domains (themes) of individual, health and nursing. Emphasis is placed on the concepts of cellular regulation, health, wellness, immunity, infection, metabolism, nutrition, perfusion, sexuality, oxygenation, thermoregulation, addiction, development, family, grief and loss, mood and affect, reproduction, and teaching and learning. This course will develop health promotion strategies and consider health concerns across the life span. A focused clinical component will include inpatient and outpatient settings.
1069	An academically oriented study of biblical lands, this specially designed course offers three semester hours credit for an intense two-week study program in the lands of the Bible, preceded by orientation lectures, and followed by supervised research into one aspect of the field tour. Travel costs paid by student. Cost varies each semester.
1070	This is a multi-genre survey of American literature produced in the contemporary period (1980s to the present). We will examine literary texts in their historical, social and aesthetic contexts, exploring the various ways American literature responds to the complexities of race, class, gender, and sexuality in contemporary society. In part, this means thinking about American literature in an increasingly postmodern, multicultural, global context. Course readings will draw from a diverse range of contemporary American authors. Reading selections will vary, but could include works by: Sherman Alexie, T.C. Boyle, Raymond Carver, Junot Diaz, Don DeLillo, Louise Erdrich, Jeffrey Eugenides, Jonathan Franzen, Jorie Graham, Gish Jen, Edward P. Jones, Jhumpa Lahiri, Change-rae Lee, Cormac McCarthy, Toni Morrison, Sharon Olds, Philip Roth, Kay Ryan, Paula Vogel, and August Wilson.
1071	This course looks at a number of books written for non-economists, and expects students to critically analyze their economic content. The required books are, with a single exception, chosen by the students enrolled in the class. In addition, students are expected to write and publish newspaper editorials on economic topics of their choosing. This course is very reading intensive, and emphasizes communication skills. Prerequisite: ECON-201 or ECON 202, QBUS 200 or ATDV 110 or MATH 371.
1072	This course will give the prospective teacher sustained experience in the high school classroom. In addition to teaching, the student is expected to assume other professional responsibilities that are assigned to him/her by the cooperating teacher and/or principal. It is expected that student teachers will gradually add teaching
1073	The development of social institutions and currents of thought from the 16th century to mid-19th century.
1074	This course focuses on marketing entrepreneurship and innovation of new product development and management throughout the product life cycle. The first part of the course studies the new product/service development and marketing process from concept development and testing to market introduction for new or established organizations. Attention is devoted to creating an environmnet conducive to innovation, recognizing business opportunities, and assessing the market, customer, and competitive situations. The second aspect of the course relates to branding and brand management including the tasks of product positioning, brand personality and equity, and alternating branding strategies. The course facilitates the development of the conceptual knowledge and applied skills students will need in order to meet the needs of a diverse global market across all socio-economic groups.
1075	This course is designed to introduce students to interactive media and online reporting. Students will learn the technology required to design and produce a web site. They will learn to write for new media; particularly the internet. Students will also practice using the internet for journalistic research. This course will also be open to students interested in using the internet for distributing their creative work. No previous experience with web design is required.
1076	This course in Aesthetics explores the nature of art and its relationship to society, truth, and human experience. Questions to be explored include: the meaning and place of art; its role in education; its relation to reality; and the nature of beauty. Examples will be drawn from a variety of artistic media, including painting, sculpture, dance, film, photography, music, literature, drama, architecture, and conceptual art. Thinkers typically considered are Plato, Aristotle, Kant, Schiller, Hegel, Nietzsche, Dewey,
1077	This course examines the social mechanisms through which power, wealth, and prestige are distributed in contemporary societies with special attention to such major determinants as race, sex, property, and occupation.Some time will be spent on the consequences of the class structure for lifestyle. The course also examines rates and patterns of social mobility in modern societies.
1078	Assessment and awareness of lifestyle behaviors and their effect on adult wellness will be stressed. Challenges to health will be explored using the nursing process. Skills that are essential to health promotion or health assessment will be integrated throughout the course. These skills will be applied in a laboratory practicum, hospital, nursing home and/or various community settings. Emphasis will be placed on the role of the RN in the caring environment.
1079	The philosophy of 20th century Existentialism and its 19th century origins. Main figures include Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Marcel, Camus, Sartre, and Beauvoir. Typical questions pertain to freedom, death, responsibility, absurdity, and the meaning of existence in
1080	Students may pursue a topic of their choosing related to broadcast that must be submitted in writing and approved by the director of the Broadcast and Society Minor. (All independent study courses are subject to approval of CURCA in accordance with College policy. Permission of instructor.
1081	A study of the potential economic loss from personal, property and liability risks to which all individuals and organizations are exposed. The methods by which these risks are identified and evaluated will be explored, together with methods for retaining and transferring these risks.
1082	A continuation of ARAB 301. Emphasis on the development of writing skills and extended study of cultural realities. This course is for students who have completed the equivalent of five semesters of college Arabic. 
1083	Students in this course will examine the relationship between education and society from a sociological perspective. The course will examine the work of educational theorists over the last 100 years in an effort to understand the purpose of education and the various explanations for differential educational outcomes. Specifically, the readings focus on the role that class, race, language and gender play in students educational experiences and outcomes. By the end of the course, students will have increased their theoretical repertoire and will be able to analyze and discuss pattens of student achievement from a variety of perspectives.
1084	This course covers the role of the auditor, the audit process, the public accounting profession, audit risk and materiality, fraud, audit methods and techniques, audit planning, internal control, the effects of information technology on the audit, auditing revenue, receivables and inventories, professional ethics, legal responsibilities, emerging assurance services and recent developments in the auditing profession.
1085	This course reviews the organizational and societal context in which healthcare is delivered in the United States. In response to the Institute of Medicine 2010 report on The Future of Nursing: Leading Change, Advancing Health, this course prepares nurses to lead change and advance health through knowledge of how public and private policies are made. The historical perspective is developed early in the semester and is built upon to explore existing health policy and delivery systems including legislation, the professional disciplines, organizations, and health networks, forms of care delivery, consumer needs, and economics and funding. The course ends with a focus on future forms of delivery that would improve the health care status of the American population as a whole.
1086	Interdisciplinary Studies I examines issues facing human beings in today's natural world from the points of view of a variety of academic disciplines. Generally, different topic are covered each time the course is offered. Open to sophomore-level students and above.
1087	The development and transformations of Evangelical Pietism and its impact on American life. Emphasis will be placed on revivalism as the central theme of this tradition in America
1088	This course, taught in English, includes the study of selected subtitled films, which will be utilized as a visual and aural source to learn about social justice issues in the Spanish-speaking world. Students will learn aout the history, politics, and social issues of Spanish speaking populations in Latin America, Spain and the United States. The geographical emphasis will shift among the various Spanish-speaking regions of the world. Possible broad themes include memory, oppression, self-discovery, immigration, exile, identity, assimilation, women's rights, dictatorship, GLBTQ issues, and indigenous rights. With its roots in the ideals of the Franciscan tradition, this course demonstrates how to critically analyze social justice issues in cultural settings depicted in films from the Spanish-speaking world from a variety of perspectives. Does not count toward Spanish major or minor.
1089	What makes one argument acceptable and another unacceptable? What makes one inference reasonable and another unreasonable? Philosophers employ a variety of methods for studying argument and inference, and this course will introduce students to some of these methods. Students should come away from the course with a better understanding of the nature of argumentation and our capacity for reason, along with strong skills in critical thinking that can be applied to personal, intellectual, and
1090	This course examines an important idea in political philosophy, that of democracy. It does this both by studying the idea as it manifests itself in various epochs of the history of philosophy, and by exploring controversial questions in contemporary democratic theory.
1091	This three-credit course is designed to teach students how to apply health behavior strategies and solutions learned in the classroom to all areas of campus as Peer Health Educator At the conclusion of the course, students may achieve a national certification as Peer Health Educators. This course contributes to the development, administration, and evaluation of programs and practices in health education and health services to promote and sustain healthy campus environments and healthy lifestyles for Siena students.
1092	This course is a study of quantitative methods and tools for accountants. Topics will include the following: sampling theory and techniques for auditing, probability theory, regression analysis including multivariate regression, linear programming, and Excel as an advanced problem solving tool. Requires admission to the MS in Accounting program.
1093	A thorough review of the structures of the Italian language, supplemented by selected readings. The audio-lingual aspect of the language is further developed, and the ability to read with understanding is increased.
1094	A foundational studio course exploring two-dimensional design problems through a controlled sequence of exercises in drawing, abstract black and white composition, and basic color theory and its application to design. Emphasis is placed upon developing a student's personal appreciation and creative expression rather than professional skill. Studio fee.
1095	A survey course designed to introduce students to the cross-cultural and global economic issues that have an impact on doing business. Through projects and case studies, students will explore the impact of cultural and economic differences on how business decisions are made.
1096	Astrophysics is the application of physical principles to astronomical systems. Astrophysicists use their knowledge of physics to explain observations of astronomical phenomena, drawing upon a wide range of subjects in physics, including classical mechanics, quantum and atomic physics, thermodynamics, electromagnetism, chemistry, and nuclear physics, among others. In this two-semester introduction to astrophysics you will learn how to use a variety of physical principles to understand the characteristics and evolution of planets, stars, galaxies, and the Universe as a whole. In this course the thematic focus will be on gravity, which is the dominant force in many astronomical systems. Among the topics we will explore include planetary and binary star systems, supermassive black holes, spiral and elliptical galaxies, dark matter, gravitational lensing, and the geometry and cosmic expansion history of the
1097	The purpose of the Financial Plan Development course is to require the financial planning student to demonstrate the ability to integrate and apply his or her knowledge of financial planning topics, as received through the financial planning curriculum. The course provides the opportunity for students to apply the financial planning process to real-life situations, as well as their ability to communicate their planning recommendations to a client.
1098	A study of the status of the child, from the beginning of life to the twelfth year inclusive. The interaction of children with social institutions such as family, school, religion, economics, etc. will be investigated as well as certain problems of childhood in contemporary America, with cross-cultural comparisons.
1099	The course consists of studio work in Level I Modern Dance technique, principles and style. The student is expected to master the beginner level elements of alignment, placement, rhythm and execution of movements that are unique to the modern dance idiom. Written requirements include: research paper on specific modern dance choreographers and a critique of an assigned
1100	This internship provides students with practical experience in a professional media environment. Performance at the host media company, in addition to a satisfactory written report and an internship journal will determine the final grade. JOUR-481 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any one semester. Permission of Director of Broadcast & Society Minor required. Same as CREA 481.
1101	This covers basic concepts in chemical kinetics. A central theme is the understanding of rates of chemical reactions, and what they tell us about chemical reactions. This includes: determination of rate laws, the use of rate laws to derive reaction mechanism, and the extrapolation of kinetic data to explore molecular dynamics. Ab Inition calculation of transition state structure and properties will be
1102	An introductory study of Russian phonetics, pronunciation, vocabulary, and grammar. Stress upon the spoken language,
1103	The study of the reign of Nicholas II (1894-1917), the Soviet period, and post-Soviet Russia.
1104	Analysis of selected topics on an advanced level. Topics are drawn from micro and macro-economics. The course is designed to acquaint the student with advanced subjects and original literature. This course may be taken more than once with different content.
1105	This course provides an overview of investment analysis and decision making with attention to equity analysis and valuation, fixed income securities analysis and valuation, and portfolio management. Topics include asset allocation, common stock and fixed income investments, ESG issues, and portfolio management. Prerequisite: FINC-550
1106	Students in this course will examine the relationship between education and society from a sociological perspective. The course will examine the work of educational theorists over the last 100 years in an effort to understand the purpose of education and the various explanations for differential educational outcomes. Specifically, the readings focus on the role that class, race, language and gender play in students educational experiences and outcomes. By the end of the course, students will have increased their theoretical repertoire and will be able to analyze and discuss patterns of student achievement from a variety of perpsectives.
1107	This course provides students with the opportunity to develop and enhance their negotiation and research skills through participation in a computer facilitated simulation in which they represent a country in an international simulation with students from colleges and universities in the United States and abroad. Each year students will represent a different country and develop issue proposals to be negotiated and voted upon at the end of the three-week simulation. Open to juniors and seniors of any major who have some backgound in studying international issues and processes. Permission of insturctor required to register. ATTR: ARTS, GLST
1108	An intensive study of Latin grammar and vocabulary with emphasis on learning to read simple Latin. This is the first course for students offering less than two entrance units in Latin. A student must complete LATN-101 (or the equivalent) in order to register for LATN-102. 
1109	A study of humankind, its primate background, evolution, and earliest appearance. The meaning of culture, its growth and development with a cross-cultural investigation of family type, kinship organization, life cycle, subsistence pattern, human ecology, and cultural change will be pursued.
1110	This course will be offered with emphasis on different topics. The content will be designated by subtitle. Students may take this course more than once with different content. Not open to Biology majors. This course is designed to fulfill part of the School of Science Core requirement for School of Liberal Arts and School of Business students.
1111	Through workshop, discussion, observations and viewing and analyzing professional documentaries, students are acquainted with the process of using a camera to produce audio and visual images that record and interpret existing events. The course will examine artistic methods for the production of documentaries as well as the social and political aspects of documentary film. Laboratory sessions are devoted to production and postproduction activities. This course is designed for students with no previous experience or those with some experience but no training.
1112	The practical basis of the status of the individual and personal rights as discussed and elaborated upon in the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States. The case law approach is used. POSC-370 is not a pre-requisite
1113	This course provides an opportunity to explore selected areas of study not in the regular broadcast offerings. Topics vary depending on student and faculty interest. May be taken more than once with different content. A field trip may be required.
1114	A basic introduction to reporting and writing the news for broadcast, both radio and television. Students learn what constitutes news, how to develop news stories and the basic audio and video elements required in broadcast journalism. Students will explore legal and ethical issues in broadcast journalism and major developments in the broadcast journalism field. Same as CREA 108.
1115	This course serves as an introduction to basic science and chemical principles that are encountered in everyday interactions with food and cooking. The influence of food on history will also be examined. It is designed to fulfill part of the School of Science core requirement for School of Liberal Arts and School of Business students. 
1116	Gateway to Marketing is an introduction to the marketing major with emphasis on careers and hot topics in marketing. This class provides students with the opportunity to begin to develop the foundational skills (teamwork, leadership, and critical thinking) that are important learning outcomes for the major and the School of Business. Further, it provides students with an introduction to engagement activities (undergraduate research, service, innovation and entrepreneurship) that will help position students for the future.
1117	This course examines auditing concepts and issues in depth. A special focus exists on audit evidence and how auditors make decisions. Some topic areas include ethics, analytical review, fraud and the role of technology.
1118	This course consists of coursework that will be taught in English and consist of coursework in English followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Arabic speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students, present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost varies each semester. Permission of Instructor is required.
1119	This course is designed to expose students to the practice of political communication via an internship experience performing communications tasks for various governmental offices and agencies, political campaigns, campaign strategists, legislators, political candidates, political consulting, speechwriters, political advertising agencies, or lobbying firms. Students will serve as Political Communication interns working 120 to 150 hours during the semester performing duties and responsibilities as determined by the agency supervisor in consultation with the faculty director. Students will be graded based upon the joint evaluation of the agency supervisor and the internship professor. Written permission of the internship supervisor is required.
1120	This course introduces the learner to health care delivery systems, how health care policy impacts the delivery of care, the management of transitions of care across healthcare settings, and the care processes that support patient and families' management of health. Students will be expected to apply the care processes to the care of patients and families across the diversity of health care settings. Students will utilize evidence and information technology to identify hospital and community resources to safely meet the needs of patients and families. The student will recognize the role of the nurse as a patient advocate within and across care settings.
1121	This course demonstrates the evolution of major themes in French literature in all genres from their origins to the beginnings of modern times.
1122	This course aims to provide students with an introduction to the discipline and methodologies of history through the study of the relationship of the West to non-Western societies in the contemporary world. Attention is focused on understanding the unique events and trends of the 20th century and their political, social, economic, literary and artistic antecedents in the previous century.
1123	An introduction to the techniques of Euclidean and NonEuclidean geometry. Topics include: plane Euclidean geometry, geometric transformation groups, spherical
1124	Beginning with the two developing countries (China and India) that together represent forty percent of the world's population, this course takes students beyond the confines of allopathic medicine and into a world where traditional medicine and its practitioners provide health care to the general population. A significant component of the course explores the increasing interface between traditional forms of health care and allopathic medicine and the wide-ranging economic, political, and social realities that fragment populations and the impact of these realities on health and
1125	This class may feature a special philosophical problem, a philosophical tradition, or the works of an individual philosopher selected for intensive study, with special emphasis on primary sources. Students in this course will be responsible for presenting material to the class and for producing a substantial research paper evidencing philosophical methodology and knowledge gained from community of research with faculty. The course entails six credits (three credits repeatable one time for full credit), and can be counted as the seminar requirement towards majoring in philosophy. Permission of the program directors is required to participate. The Symposium may be taken for credit more than once.
1126	The Qur'an is sacred scrpture and Muslims believe it was revealed to Prophet Mohammad Ibn Abdullah in Arabic over a period of 23 years in Arabia where the first Islamic community developed. This course examines the range of religious experiences represented by the Qur'an text, its geographical surroundings from which it emerged, its interpreters, and its critics. With the use and examination of various translations of the Qur'an, the course examines the religion and culture of the pre-Islamic period, the history of the text including Hadith literature, and the relationship between the Qur'an and Jewish and Christian scriptures, acting to familiarize students with its broad scope.
1127	A survey of the development of the English language from its origins as an indo-European dialect to modern British and American English. The course will also examine regional, ethnic, and national varieties of English as well as current social and political issues regarding contemporary English.
1128	Student papers on topics approved by the Chemistry faculty are presented and discussed. 
1129	This course provides an introduction to the specialty knowledge of Gerontologic nursing. Concepts include physical and mental aging, increased complexity of care utilization of healthcare resources and interactions between acute and chronic co-morbidities. Models of care to manage life transitions, physical changes, end of life care (palliative and hospice) and spirituality will be discussed. A focus on the role of the caring nurse in utilizing resources and programs to promote functional, physical, mental wellness in older adults is emphasized. Community Service requrement with a geriatric community is the culminating component of this course pulling together concepts of both caring and advocating for this population. Prerequisites: NURS-310.
1130	This elective draws from knowledge, values, and skills related to the fields of social work, psychology, public health, and sociology as it pertains to crisis theory and crisis intervention. The definition of crisis and phenomena of crisis from different theoretical perspectives will be examined along with an exploration of the impact of crisis on an individual, framily/group, and community. Applicable assessment skills will be learned for specific crisis situations. In addition, this class is a Franciscan Concern course with an emphasis on social justice. You will develop an understanding of how equity, equality, and oppression may minimize or exacerbate the experience of crisis.
1131	An introductory studio course designed to sharpen skills of visual perception, representation, and invention in drawing. Various media and techniques are explored in relation to subjects drawn from nature, including the figure and imagination. Studio fee.
1132	The course stresses rhythmical and expressive movement within the jazz idiom. While the course focuses primarily on Jazz Dance technique, some ballet and modern technique will be included in the warm-up. The class will consist of warm-up, isolations, strengthening and stretching exercises and patterns through space. Work will be done in the center as well as across the floor. There are
1133	A chronological study of the development of the drama from Cervantes to Calderon.
1134	An advanced course in the problems of composition, value structure, color mixing, and various painting and drawing
1135	The senior thesis is part of the 1-year capstone sequence. Students will write a research paper, 25-30 pages in length, addressing an area of special interest to the students. The paper will be based on original scholarly work, data collection, or an internship field study. Students should have their thesis topic selected during the fall semester of their senior year in SOCI 490 (senior capstone seminar).
1136	This course provides a primary focus of developing self-care practices while providing information on the challenges associated with being in the helping professions. Students will expand their self-care toolbox as a way to defend against burnout, compassion fatigue and vicarious trauma. ATTR: ARTS explored.
1137	A course consisting of selections from representative classical authors. Important grammatical constructions are reviewed. This course is recommended for students who have completed Elementary Latin. 
1138	This course provides a foundation in computer hardware organization including: a brief survey of historical developments in computer hardware, a contrast of computer architectures and their implementation, and numbering systems. Also covered are fundamentals of logic design with application to the design of basic computer elements such as counters, adders, decoders, design of instruction timing sequences, register structure, addressing techniques and microcomputers.
1139	This course explores various aspects of sports writing and reporting. Students are taught to develop stories for print, radio, television and on-line publications. Students are assigned readings that illustrate strong storytelling techniques, and learn to craft basic hard news stories as well as feature reports and profile pieces. Students learn the fundamentals of shooting and editing video. Students learn to create content under deadline pressure that conforms to legal and ethical standards. Same as CREA 380.
1140	Latin American and Caribbean economic history and development within the context of historical, social, and political processes that have shaped the region
1141	This course builds on the knowledge base contained in previous courses taken by actuarial students. The goal is to reinforce understanding of the fundamental concepts of financial mathematics, and how those concepts are applied in calculating present and accumulated values for various streams of cash flows as a basis for future use. Students will review basic financial instruments and expand their knowledge base to more modern financial analysis using yield curves, spot rates and immunization.
1142	An introduction to the discipling of Religious Studies through an examination of the nature of religious experience, its relation to human understandings of the Sacred, and its expressions in human history and culture. These themes will be concretely illustrated through examples drawn from such religious traditions as Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism and Confucianism. Contemporary forms of religious experience will be emphasized.
1143	In this course students will study a specific genre of fiction: the horror novel. The horror novel as a genre first appeared in English-language literature in the late eighteenth century, and has unfolded in many permutations through the twenty-first century. Readings for this course may span the two hundred plus years of this genre, and/or take a thematic approach. Students will study the distinction between ""horror"" and ""terror"" and discuss the ""gothic"" and the figure of the ""monster"" all in conjunction with literary analyses. Works by authors such as Matthew ""Monk"" Lewis, Ann Radcliffe, Bram Stoker, Shirley Jackson, Anne Rice, Thomas Harris, and Stephen King may be included in the course.
1144	This course, which considers the theory and practice of effective instructional practices in diverse classrooms, will focus on the components of instruction and will be practice-oriented and performance-based. Additionally, this course provides prospective teachers with a framework to help them reflect on and improve their student teaching experience. Consequently, students will study Danielson's Framework for Teaching and use it to analyze their success within the four domains of planning and preparation, classroom environment, instruction, and professional responsibilities. Emphasis will be given to the understanding and application of the New York State Student Learning Standards in inclusive subject area classrooms. Such topics as unit planning and lesson planning, motivation inclusion, diversity, teacher expectations, questioning skills, feedback strategies, methodology, technologies, and teacher will develop and practice behaviors and strategies characteristic of effective teaching. Attention will be given to ways to place middle and high school students in
1145	Nearly every legitimate political authority and virtually every private citizan affirms the virtue of human rights. Since the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 'human rights talk"" has proliferated: unfortunately, the need for such talk and action has also proliferated. In this course we look at the history and current practices of human rights from multiple perspectives. The main theoretical questions we will address are: Are human rights simply Western, or can they be ""translated"" into non-Western contexts? How flexible are human rights claims, i.e. to address poverty or gendered violence? Is there a human right to security? Who counts as human entitled to human rights protections? What is the connection between human rights, democracy and freedom? To address these questions we will read key thinkers in will prepare students for an informed experience. Travel cost paid by student. Cost varies each semester.
1146	This academically oriented course will be taught in English and consists of coursework in English followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected German-speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost varies each semester. This course will not fulfill a language requirement, nor will it count toward a minor in German.
1147	This course is a survey of the ethical issues involved in computing. Topics studied will include data access, privacy, security, hacking, copyright and intellectual property issues, email, etc. The focus will be on identifying and analyzing ethical problems related to computing, as well as on ways to foster ethical decisionmaking in computing-centered situations.
1148	A survey of Spanish literature.
1149	Rhetoric is the study and art of persuasion: understanding how ""texts"" are consturcted to persuade specific audiences to think or believe a certain way. Speeches and essays are rhetorical ""texts"" for sure, but advertisements, films, music, and art can be defined similarly. In WRIT 200. students will be asked to critique and analyze rhetorical ""texts"" that extend beyond written modes of persuasion. The purpose of this course is to help students become familiar with the role of context, audience, and purpose
1150	TESOL is designed to equip pre-service teachers with the theoretical background and strategies for successfully teaching English to those who speak languages other than English in their homes. Additionally, TESOL will give students a brief introduction to current New York State ESOL Standards. Through in-depth readings, classroom discussions, and presentations, students will begin to master the body of knowledge relevant to teaching English Language Learners (ELLs) in New York State. A field experience component including observation of experienced ESOL educators and developing, planning, and teaching lessons to recent newcomers to the United States will help students develop successful classroom strategies and practices. To help facilitate community in ELL classrooms, as well as to promote deeper appreciation for human diversity, this course also includes an in-depth look at the US refugee experience, particularly as it relates to English Language education and cultural understanding. Students will participate in a Cross-Cultural Solidarity Experience (CCSE) to include film, readings, guest lectures, and a field experience in innercity classrooms with high refugee student populations. Thus, they will both instruct and learn from refugees as well as experts in the field of refugee resettlement.
1151	Modern Standard Arabic will be studied and utilized as a research tool intended to develop proficiency in reading for comprehension and translation into English through the study of grammar, development of composition exercises, and basic conversation practice. Student focus will be on the study of the religious dimension of Arabic sources to strengthen their use of micro skills and strategies employed in written and basic oral communication, such as describing religious events, expressing ideas, and stating and defending opinion. Offered every two years.
1152	History of modern Japan, with principal emphasis on political, economic, intellectual, and social developments since 1853.
1153	A study of the molecular organization of cells as it relates to function. The plasma membrane, the various membranous organelles, the nucleus, and the cytoskeleton are correlated to membrane transport, respiration, photosynthesis, cell growth and division, cell communication, basic genetic mechanisms, and cell motility. The labs are correlated to the lecture topics and are designed to introduce students to the techniques and equipment used in modern cell and
1154	This course examines an idea that has fascinated philosophers for all time. The subject of love will be studied historically, with readings from ancient, modern, and contemporary sources. Literature and films may be used along
1155	Lectures cover in detail the natural history and ecology of plants with an emphasis on the communities of northeastern North America. Laboratories include field studies of local plants and two overnight weekend field trips to unique plant
1156	Selected areas of study in visual art history, studio art, music or theatre. May be taken more than once with different content. A field trip to a professional music or theatre production, museum or visual art exhibition may be required. Consult the fall and spring schedules for specific content and length of
1157	This course is a comparative study of U.S. and German media which focuses on its content, form, and impact. In this course, students will: decode, evaluate and compare data presented in a variety of U.S. and German information sources; analyze how media and its message are presented in both countries; and, critically reflect upon the media message and their understanding of it. This course will consider printed, audio, and visual information as text which will be analyzed for its information content, its social, and cultural bias, as well as any possible intended manipulation of the reader's/listener's/viewer's perspective. Throughout this course, the interpretation of the medium will consistently focus attention on the Franciscan heritage concern which embraces a broad sense of tradition. Media has been a means of communication since humans existed. The study of media, in its diverse forms (visual, audio or printed) always had and has a subtext grounded in a culture and heritage which evolved through the ages. This course will be taught in English. All German materials will be in translation, dubbed, or
1158	This course explores the nature of fluctuations in aggregate business activity and the technique used to forecast. To gain an understanding of these techniques, and the usefulness of forecasts, students will prepare forecasts and explore their application to firm decision making.
1159	This course continues previous work in using an objectoriented language in problem solving, and will consist of two parallel strands: the development of students' expertise
1160	The objective of this course is to familiarize the student with the methods, trends, and policies involved in financing real estate transactions, as well as with the investment features of real estate. It includes topics such as the legal aspects of financing, permanent and construction lendment analysis, yield on investment, and real estate and income taxes.
1161	The course examines political systems at the regional, state or substate level and focuses upon socio-political organization, political socialization and decision-making structures. (May be taken more than once with different content. Consult Fall and Spring schedules for specific topics.) An additional fee may be required depending, on
1162	This course offers students an opportunity to examine literary theory in detail and to apply it to selected texts. Students may study a range of critical approaches, such as New Historicism, Postcolonial theory, and Cultural Studies.
1163	This course will examine literary works written primarily during the 1920s, a period of intense cultural freedom as well as restraint within the United States. On the one hand, this was the heyday of flappers and speakeasies; on the other hand, the Jazz Age was darkened by the historical trauma of the First World War as well as the economic hardships of The Crash of 1929 and the impending Great Depression. We will discuss the contributions of the ""Lost Generation"" of American expatriate authors in Paris and witness the cultural flowering of the Harlem Renaissance. Readings may include fiction by Willa Cather, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Ernest Hemingway, and William Faulkner; poetry by Gertrude Stein, T.S. Eliot, Countee Cullen, Langston Hughes, and e.e. cummings; and drama by Eugene O'Neill. To give a fuller sense of both the era and its literature, we may also explore other cultural media of the ""Roaring Twenties,"" such as experimental painting, silent film, blues music, and of course jazz.
1164	This course will examine basic techniques for collecting, interpreting, and analyzing qualitative data. Research strategies like ethnography, narrative analysis, text or discourse analysis, visual analysis, case study, grounded theory, oral/life history, focus groups etc., will be examined. Students will be required to do a project that will be based on qualitative methodology. Students will also address issues of ethical responsibility while conducting qualitative research. Students will be required to take ATDV 110 either before taking SOCI-306 or simultaneously with SOCI-306.
1165	This course provides a conceptually-based exposure to the fundamental principles and processes of the physical world. Practical and everyday aspects of physics that will be discussed include the mechanics of sports, electricity, optics, and how the eye and camera work etc. Additional topics may include atoms, quantum theory, the laser, the theory of relativity and cosmology (just what is a black hole?) Requires one year of high school algebra.
1166	An in-depth study of specialized topics in French. This course may be taken more than once with different subject matter and it is intended for the advanced student in French. 
1167	A course to prepare students for INSA-480 Internship in Fransiscan Service and Advocacy. The theological and social principles that provide the foundation for service and advocacy among the poor and marginalized will be discussed, particularly as they are expressed in the Fransiscan Tradition, but also as they are understood by other
1168	An interdisciplinary investigation and analysis of theories principles, and practices of human resources management. The contents encompass: viewing organizations and human resources as inter-related systems; a review of human resources functions and programs; staffing the organization and its various components; human resouces training and development; the role and impact of the work environment on employees, management, and the organization; the development and role of employee relations; and kinds and importance of remuneration and security programs.
1169	This course introduces the student to theory and research issues that explore the psychological experiences of women. Topics covered include various conceptual models of women, biological influences on their behavior, theories of female development, gender differences in personality and behavior, and problems of adjustment. It concludes with an examination of alternative lifestyles for women today.
1170	Modern conservation biology employs an integrative approach to biodiversity protection and management using principles and experiences from ecology, natural resource management, and the social sciences. Topics include biological diversity, valuation systems, adaptation and extinction, minimum viable populations, management of invasive and endangered species and the design of nature preserves. Lab and field problem-solving exercises focus on population size, habitat fragmentation, and restoration ecology. Prerequisite: BIOL-225. (May be taken as ENVA450.) Lab fee.
1171	This course presents the taxation of corporations and its effects on their shareholders. Special tax provisions related to sub-chapter S corporations and partnerships and various aspects of IRS administration and tax practice are included. New York State taxation of corporations and part
1172	Original laboratory and literature research under the direction of a faculty member. This course is arranged by mutual consent of the student and faculty member. 
1173	A study of a language that is essential for scholary study of the Bible of Qur'an. This course may be taken for up to four semesters of Arabic Greek, Hebrew, or other languages (e.g. Latin, Aramaic) related to scripture study.
1174	This course will introduce students to the creative arts as whole through the interaction between experiments in creative action and critical analysis. Fundamental questions about the nature of art and creativity, the art worlds and ethical dimensions, and the relation between the arts and society will be initiated. For each theoretical component of the course, there is a complementary creative exercise.
1175	A qualified student, with the consent of the Head of the Computer Science Department, may pursue further research and study in some specific aspect of computer science. The student will be directed by a member of the Computer Science The student will be expected to comply with all School of Science guidelines concerning such projects. The number of credits to be awarded (1-3) will be determined by the Head of the Computer Science Department and the directing faculty member. Computer use fee. This course is arranged by mutual consent of the faculty member and student.
1176	This course familiarizes students with basic principles of psychological research through lecture and laboratory experience. Drawing examples from various areas of psychology the course trains students to design and conduct experiments, to evaluate the internal and external validity of relevant research literature. Students gain familiarity with technical sources in psychology. The social and ethical aspects of psychological research are also examined. The course features practice regarding the standard elements of format and style used to report the results of psychological investigations.
1177	An integration of the Creative Arts major that investigates issues related to the contemporary art world as exemplified in students' research and creative interests. Through intensive study and research, students will examine current trends and critical perspectives in art. Field trips may be unfulfilled major requirements.
1178	By expanding the student's understanding of the financial system to include an international perspective, this course introduces the student to the role of international considerations within the development of corporate policy. The course examines the determination of exchange rates and operation of exchange markets. The application of these ideas will be extended to the firm's management of foreign exchange exposure, cash management, and capital budgeting. Multinational banking and political risk management will also be studied.
1179	This course is an historical survey of American literature from the colonial period to 1900. Beginning with Native American stories and myths, the course goes on to consider significant literary figures from colonial America and a broad range of the 19th century writers. Authors studies may include Bradstreet, Edwards, Wheatley, Irving, Poe, Emerson, Hawthorne, Melville, Douglass, Jacobs, Whitman,
1180	A basic survey of the visual arts with the intention of developing the student's appreciation and knowledge of arts an expression of human culture from its origins to the 15th century. Small group field trips to local architectural sites are required.
1181	Explores the origin and sequence of ancient philosophy from the Pre-Socratics through Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle, and Hellenistic and Roman successors. Emphasis on careful study of fragments from early Greek thinkers, Platonic dialogues, major works by Aristotle, and later Epicurean and Stoic writings. Questions elucidate the discovery of nature, being, becoming, and areas of
1182	This course covers the concepts of biochemistry. It focuses on the fundamental principles of physical and organic chemistry as it applies to the behavior of biological macromolecules. Three hours of lecture each week. laboratory such Fluorescence and UVNis spectroscopies,
1183	A study of the impact of European intrusion on he history and culture of the American Indians. Consideration will be given to the relationship between the Indian peoples and the United States government and the consequences of its policies as well as the Indians' efforts to maintain their cultural identity.
1184	This advanced special topics course explores literature and/or film and critical theory on a broad range of topics from the Spanish-speaking world. This course may be taken more than once with different content and it is ATTR: ARTS
1185	The course will examine the theoretical and ideological debates related to power, state, civil society, nationalism, democratization, and globalization. Students will also examine social identities like class, race, gender, sexuality, and religion and their intersection with various political institutions.
1186	This course addresses the pertinent management issues of the of the trillion dollar nonprofit sector and explores the theory and practice of effective management of nonprofit organizations, with an emphasis on practical application. In particular, the course will explore the role of nonprofit organizations in a society and the key theories, issues, debates, and unique challenges facing managers and leaders in the nonprofit sector.
1187	This course, which accompanies clinical practice, is designed to address current issues and practices in literacy development in the content areas at the middle and high school levels, and assist prospective teachers in reflecting upon and improving their student teaching experience. Emphasis is on the responsibility of teachers of all subjects to create a literate environment in their classroom and to develop the literacy skills of students of all ability levels as well as of students who are English language learners. Specific instructional strategies will be explored that enable teachers to engage learners actively with course content, to enhance critical thinking skills and expression of ideas, to promote metacognitive skills and study skills, and to develop critical skills in evaluating sources of information. Special topics including the utilization of technology and assistive technology to further learning and working with students from diverse backgrounds and with differing abilities will be stressed. Requires admission to the Professional Sequence.
1188	Continuation of RUSS-401 or equivalent.
1189	This course will examine the evolution of terrorism, its causes, perpetrators, and methods. It will also evaluate the various national and international methods used for
1190	This course offers students practice in critical thinking, reading, responding to, and analyzing a wide variety of literature. Because the course is writing-intensive, students will gain experience in writing and revising critical essays about literature. Readings will include literature from diverse classic and contemporary authors, Homeric to the Hellenistic Age. (Same as CLSS-220)
1191	This course explores the use of improvisation as a tool for the further development of the art of making dance. Students will explore the freedom of movement and with it, experimentation. The class will help the students gain an increased sensitivity to time, space, energy, motion, oneself and other people. Students will develop the skill to take an idea, concept or feeling and express it non-verbally. Students will learn to improvise with their bodies as an instrument, with abstract elements of dance and with the environment in which dance exists.
1192	This course provides students with a fundamental understanding of how organizations function and the roles managers play within and across organizations. This course introduces students to six management competencies; decision making and planning, innovation and entrepreneurship, teamwork and leadership, communiation, human resource development and process and project management. The course facilitates the development of the conceptual knowledge and applied skills students will need to manage an incresingly diverse workforce and to lead with integrity in a changing global environment. As a Franciscan Concern/Diversity course, students will learn how effective management practice requires managers to view the world from multiple perspectives, so they may affirm individual rights and appreciate individual differences and differences
1193	An academically oriented study of international business in a region outside the United States, this specially designed course offers one three semester hours credit for an intense 8-18 day study program in a region outside of the United States. This travel experience is preceded by orientation lectures and followed by supervised research into one aspect of the field study. Students may tour factories, retail outlets, education institutions, and financial markets. They will meet with business executives, business faculty, and government officials. They will examine issues including how marketing approaches vary among countries, how culture influences the manner in which business is conducted, and how government and trade regulations affect overall economic structure. Travel costs
1194	A study of the Biology of fishes that includes the evolutionary relationships and diversification of the major groups of fishes, the environment, their habitats, life styles, anatomy, physiology, and behavior. Fish as a resource and their relationships with man will also be considered. Laboratories will explore a variety of topics including identification,anatomy, physiology, behavior, and ecology. Fieldwork will be emphasized and time will be spent working in local streams, ponds, and lakes. Field trips to Long Island Sound and the Boston Aquarium are scheduled.
1195	Gateway to Business Careers is an introduction to the various business disciplines and majors, with emphasis on careers and hot topics in business. This class provides students with the opportunity to begin to develop some of the foundational skills (communication, critical thinking and problem solving) that are important learning outcomes for the School of Business. Further, it provides students with an introduction to engagement activities (undergraduate research, service, innovation and entrepreneurship) that will help position students for the future.
1196	This course awards academic credit to eligible students to create advanced media content for a semester-long project designed to further the student's application of writing and production skills. The number of credits awarded will be determined in advance by Director of the Broadcast & Society Minor on the basis of workload and the degree of difficulty of the assignment. Creation of substantial media work, in addition to a satisfactory written report and a practicum journal will determine the final grade. JOUR-410 may be taken more than once to a maximum of six credits, but may not exceed three credits in any one semester. Permission of instructor required.
1197	Course objectives are to survey and develop numerical methods for solving scientific problems. Topics covered are roots of linear and nonlinear systems, numerical integration approximation, interpolation, and ordinary differential equations. The course will emphasize efficient computer implementation of numerical algorithms. Computer use fee.
1198	A study of selected masterworks of French literature from its medieval beginnings through the twentieth century, including novels, short stories, drama and poetry, read in English translation. No knowledge of French language is required. May not be used at part of French major or minor.
1199	In Writing Creative Nonfiction we'll explore how to artfully write and shape true stories. Often, we'll rely on the tools associated with fiction writing and consider craft elements such as characterization, setting, description, and use of figurative language as we write about real events and people. Topics we'll examine include the challenge of turning oneself into a character in an essay, the ethics of creative nonfiction, how to write about what we don't remember, recreating conversations, and writing about family and friends. We will read and write various types of essays including memoir, the personal essay, the lyric essay, the nature essay, and the graphic essay. Assignments include three essays and shorter craft exercises. Students will also be responsible for analytical responses to published work. There will be a workshop component to this course, and students are expected to share their work with classmates and engage in peer review.
1200	Field work experience in Accounting/Auditing will explore career opportunities in corporate and not-for-profit accounting businesses, New York State agencies and local government. Students work 120 hours per semester.
1201	Field work experience to explore career opportunities. Students work 120 hours per semester. Students will be graded on a standard grading scale. Students will be required to maintain a field experience journal and complete a final report or project.
1202	Students will work together in teams to complete all aspects of an engineering design and product/prototype development project. This process may include conceptual design,research and proposal writing, 3D modeling and simulation, bill of materials and raw materials selection, cost estimation, prototyping, testing the product's functionality and reliability, and presenting the results in written and oral form. In addition,students will be exposed to manufacturing safety procedures, use of bench tools, layout tools, power saws, drill presses, precision measurement tools, lathe, mill, and laser cutting tools as well as the tools related to prototype manufacturing such as 3D printers.
1203	This course provides students with an in-depth introduction to three prominent counseling theories as well as basic training in some of the tools and techniques that are needed by the entry-level counselor. In light of the demographic makeup of many clinical populations, issues related to working with women and members of minority populations will be heavily emphasized. Because a major goal of the course is to impress students with the importance of grounding counseling practice in sound psychological theory, theoretical issues and practical applications will be interwoven continuously throughout the semester.
1204	This course examines representative novels from Alarcon to Galdos. Works chosen demonstrate the important literary currents of the past century.
1205	Game theory is the study of how decisions are made when the result of a choice depends on the actions of others. This course will introduce a variety of common tools and methods used in game theory, focusing on economic uses but also including biological and political applications. Emphasis will be placed not only on mastery of the models, but on distinguishing proper tools of analysis for various situations. The course will cover traditional game theory, evolutionary game theory, and network games. Articles from both the popular press and scholarly work along with real life examples will be incorporated to show these approaches in action. Prereq: Econ 101 and 102.
1206	This course examines all aspects of writing and reporting nonfiction feature reports for various media platforms. Student projects include human interest stories and profile pieces. Topics addressed include Associated Press Style, literary journalism, researching source material, interviewing subjects, and audio/visual storytelling techniques. Students shoot and edit video using HD cameras and Final Cut Pro software. Same as CREA 440.
1207	A continuation of ITAL 301 with emphasis on the development of writing skills. 
1208	This course awards academic credit to eligible students for the community engaged work with a faculty member at
1209	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Accounting at an introductory level with no prerequisites. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. This course is not intended for students within the School of Business and may not be taken for credit by students enrolled in a major offered by the School of Business. School of Arts and School of Science students may take this course for elective credit only. It may be taken more than once with different content. 
1210	Special problems of research in any of the following areas: Political Theory and Methodology, American Government, Comparative Government, International Relations, Law, Foreign
1211	A study of the political cultures and institutions of the newly independent states that were once part of the Soviet empire. The course includes discussions of modernization and adaptation as well as problems of ethnicity, race, and political socialization.
1212	Set between the crumbling of the Roman Empire and the time commonly called the Enlightenment, the Medieval and Early Modern periods encompassed a time of religious diversity, cultural contact, and shifting gender roles. Medieval and Early Modern Studies, a multidiscinplinary field, introduces students to the founding traditions of Western Society. This course is an introduction to multidisciplinary medieval and early modern studies (MEMS), emphasizing the nature and methodology of MEMS; the primary source materials for MEMS including documents, poetry, music, art, letters, laws, and/ or other sources; and the disciplines that comprise medieval and early modern studies.
1213	A survey of the masterpieces of Greek literature in English translations from the 8th century B.C. to the Roman period, which may include selections from the Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, Hesiod's Theogony and Works and Days, the tragedies of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides, the histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, the comedies of Aristophanes and Menander, the poetry of Archilochus, Sappho, Pindar, Callimachus, and Theocritus, the works of Plato and Aristotle, the oratory of Demosthenes and Lysias, the works of the New Testament, and the biographies of Plutarch. (Same as ENGL-051)
1214	This course is a study of the major compositions, composers, and the stylistic characteristics usually associated with each of the historical music periods starting from the Baroque. This course is also designed to broaden students' artistic horizons and to unlock their creative
1215	This course examines the nature and extent of poverty in the United States from an economist's point of view. Special consideration is given to the antipoverty effects of existing and proposed government programs and policies. Competing theories of poverty and alternative approaches to research on poverty are investigated.
1216	Morphology of cells, tissues, and organs with emphasis on the relationship of structure to function at each level of organization. Laboratory includes the study of electron micrographs of cells, histological slides of tissues and organs, and the preparation of slides. Lab fee.
1217	This course is a chronological study of human development spanning conception to death from the perspective of developmental psychology. Students in this class will examine matters related to physical, cognitive and socioemotional maturation at each stage of the lifespan and how these matters can enrich, delay or otherwise alter developmental progression. Emphasis will be placed on theoretical principles, methods of study and practical implications of developmental research, particularly how these principles and methods can be applied to health professions. This course does not fulfill a Psychology major's Developmental Area requirement but may be taken as a Psychology elective. Prerequisite: PSYC 100 ATTR: ARTS
1218	The course is intended to provide opportunities for concentrated study at an advanced level in areas beyond the scope of regular course offering including topics of current concern and topics specifically identified as meeting specialized interests of students. This course is offered on an irregular basis. It may be taken more than once with different course content. 
1219	This course provides a broad historical study of the main trends and events in global history from 1500 to 1900. It examines how patterns of interaction in the past have contributed to shaping historical change. Students will learn to understand and appreciate the important role of cross-cultural communication between the civilizations of ""the West"" and the rest of the World. They will examine the human condition over time, both the role of the powerful and the powerless. This course also introduces students to the discipline and methodologies of history. Students will engage with enduring questions of human concern, demonstrate competence in historical literacy, and practice intercultural knowledge and respect.
1220	The evolution and development of Russian society and currents of thought from Kievan Rus to the present.
1221	A discussion of the basic properties of the set of integers. Prime numbers and the Euclidean Algorithm. Numbertheoretic functions, especially the Euler phi-function. Linear congruences and their applications to the solution of Diophantine Equations. Exponents and primitive roots. Quadratic residues and the Law of Quadratic Reciprocity. Offered in Spring Semester.
1222	This 1 (or 2 or 3) cr. course will build on the material covered in CHEM 310 and/or 320, and will cover select topics in such areas as reaction dynamics and kinetics, thermodynamics, statistical mechanics, quantum mechanics, molecular spectroscopy, and computational chemistry. Course content will vary with each offering and will depend in part on the interests of enrolled students.
1223	The Washington Economic Policy Semester provides a seminar which offers a theoretical analysis of contemporary economic problems; presentation of alternative paradigms used to understand economic problems; extensive readings; preparation of papers; and on-site discussions of economic policy decisions. Meetings are generally four to six times per week and may be held at field sites as well as on campus. (See
1224	An advanced course in entrepreneurship focusing on developing, planning, financing and launching new business ventures. The course will require students to integrate the functional areas of business in developing, writing and presenting a real business plan for an entrepreneurial start-up or an existing small business.
1225	This academically oriented course will be taught in Arabic and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Arabicspeaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired abroad. Students may repeat this course for credit if subject matter differs. Travel costs are paid in full by students. The cost varies each semester. This course will fulfill a language requirement. Permission of instructor is
1226	This course will look at U.S. history in the decades following the last World War, examining politics, culture, economics, and society from the Cold War to the rise of the internet.
1227	Introduction to elementary German grammer, syntax, and vocabulary. Designed for students with no previous knowledge of German.
1228	This course introduces the student to French literature through the medium of one of its most important genres. With an important emphasis on oral work on the part of the student, the course will be conducted in French.
1229	This course examines the political economy of popular culture, studying the workings of domination and transgression in popular culture and everyday life. The sociological study of popular culture includes the deconstruction of youth sub-cultures, fashion, music, mass media, amusement parks, advertising, entertainment, and leisure. Students explore not only image and representation but popular culture as everyday social practices. Central to sociology's study of popular culture are social movements, deviance, and social deconstruction. Curriculum and assignments examine both cultural production and con-
1230	This course provides students with a thorough introduction to mergers and acquisitions. Topics include motives for undertaking M&As, takeover and anti-takeover tactics, the valuation of M&As, tax, legal, and accounting issues, and leveraged buyouts. The ethical issues involved, and the managers' potentially conflicting motives in undertaking these transactions, are also examined.
1231	A study of the historical movement of peoples from around the world to the United States within the context of global political and economic changes that emphasizes transnational connections and the complex history of race, citizenship, and intercultural relations.
1232	The study of Italian pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar
1233	This course will involve the study of current accounting topics of interest to the CPA community. These areas could involve new standards published by FASB, IASB, or the AICPA. The topics will integrate practical and theoretical implications of the issues on global economic issues, business, contemporary society, and ethical or moral
1234	This course focuses on financial statement analysis and the use of accounting information by organizational decision makers. Decision makers must understand cost concepts and how they relate to a variety of operational demands. This understanding leads to the ability to analyze profitability and cash flow, as well as interpret the information supplied by various performance measurement systems. Current concerns of decision makers such as operating in a global environment, sustainability, workforce empowerment, and the impact of analytics and visualization will be discussed. Topics may change as business issues evolve.
1235	A survey of Spanish literature.
1236	This is a student-centered course designed for those who seek an intellectually exciting, collaborative learning experience. Instruction is conducted in a seminar format, with students encouraged to take an active role in determining the direction of the class. Students will meet weekly to discuss classic literary works of the Western tradition, such as Homer's Odyssey and Shakespeare's Much Ado about Nothing, as well as contemporary multicultural works. Same as ENGL 090.
1237	An introduction to the chemistry of carbon compounds, including the study of bonding, structure, nomenclature, physical and spectrosopic properties, methods of preparation and reactivity of alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, alkyl halides, and alcohols. Separation and purification techniques are stressed in the laboratory and reaction products are analyzed by spectroscopic and chromatographic methods, including GC, HPLC, FTIR, and FT-NMR. Three hours of lecture and four hours of laboratory each week. Lab fee.
1238	This course investigates the ways in which a commitment to nonviolent social action can transform and significantly empower people to bring about changes in themselves and in the larger society. By examining power and the means of resisting and acquiring it, by studying the ideas and accomplishments of several social activists, and by carrying out one or more projects aimed at social improvement, the instructors hope to assist the students in understanding how people can act to take control of their lives and achieve their goals for attaining a more peaceful and just works. Same as PCST-250.
1239	Asian American Literature honors seminar will survey the development of Asian American literature by major as well as lesser known, yet significant, Asian American writers. It will cover major Asian American literary movements; pay close attention to the literature's social, historical, cultural, and political contexts; and raise the awareness that Asian American literature, despite its distinct traditions, is an important part of American literature. It will address issues of personal, racial, and cultural identity formation and displacement, femininity and masculinity, individuality and community, home and exile, race and gender, assimilation, resistance, and accommodation socio-economic status, and generational conflicts. It will also examine what it means to be an Asian American writer, why writings by Asian American writers have been traditionally excluded from the American literary canon, and how this exclusion is related to the dominant American political and racial discourses. Students will be introduced to postcolonial, reader response, multicultural, and feminist theories. Literary analysis will focus on the themes, form, style, language, and structure of a variety of literary works, mainly short stories, excerpts of novels, and selected novels. To supplement our readings of literary texts, we will study selected works of literary criticism, history, and the social sciences.
1240	A study of the background material needed for calculus with emphasis on functions. The course includes a study of relations, functions and graphs, polynomials, solving equations and inequalities, rational and radical functions, logarithmic and exponential functions, trigonometric functions both right angle and analytic, vectors, polar and parametric equations, and an introduction to the conic sections. Students must purchase an approved graphing calculator prior to beginning this course.
1241	This course is designed to explore interdisciplinary topics concerning American culture, history, and life that are not treated in traditional course offerings. The area or theme will be studied in depth and there will be an emphasis on discussion. The subject will be announced before the semester in which the colloquium is to be given. The colloquium topic and instructor must be approved by the Director of the American Studies Program. May be taken twice with different topics.
1242	Provides review and amplification of selected general physics topics together with techniques and practice in physics problem solving. To be taken concurrently with General Physics II (PHYS-140). Required for all Physics majors (including Physics majors in the 3/2 program),
1243	This laboratory course introduces students to experimental methods applied to thermodynamic and material science investigations. Techniques such as vacuum line manipulations, uv/vis spectrometry, calorimetry, NMR spectroscopy, and refractometry, are used to study phase diagrams, ideal and non-ideal behavior, equilibria, electrochemistry, and thermodynamic state functions. Polymers are synthesized and analyzed by viscometry and chromatographic techniques. The
1244	This course examines the relationship between, and the making of sex and gender. It tackles the question of how we are and become sexual beings, and critically explores the fluid boundary between the biological and the social. Is gender a cultural construction? Or are there essential differences between women and men; ones that we should embrace rather than reject? if gender is made, can it be unmade? Are there two or multiple genders? Is our gender located in the body or is it psychological? Major historical figures as well as contemporary feminist philosophers will be studied. Examples from film and media may be used to
1245	This lecture course will build on the material covered in CHEM 210/220, and will cover in more detail the structural and physical properties of organic molecules and the reactions they undergo. Advanced chemical reactions will be covered, including complex skeletal rearrangements, multicomponent reactions, and the impacts of neighboring group participation. This advanced vocabulary of organic reactions will be used to learn the strategies behind the synthesis of complex organic molecules. Concepts of physical organic chemistry, such as reaction kinetics, isotope effects, linear free energy relationships and reaction mechanism determination will be covered. Structural determination using 1 and 2-D NRS, MS and other techniques will be discussed.
1246	A study in English of the masterpieces of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides, through a close reading of individual works of the tragedians and the fruits of modern scholarship. Among the subjects treated will be the history and origins of Greek tragedy, the physical space of the ancient theater, aspects of performance (the tragic mask, acting techniques, etc.), the location of individual play within their historical context, and the later influence of
1247	American Renaissance Literature examines the emergence of the American narrative, the American character, and the development of the Transcendentalist and Romantic literary movements. Close attention will also be paid to abolitionist writing, slave narrative, and the establishment of the American woman writer against the background of the expanding nation. Students may study such authors as Irving Cooper, Jacobs, Emerson, Thoreau, Hawthorne, Poe, Fuller, Fern, Stowe, Douglas, Melville, Sedgwick, Whitman, or Kirk pulse in America from the close of the Civil Are to WWI. Texts will be examined within the context of the American transformation from an agrarian republic to an industrial world power. Students may read authors such as Twain, James, Chopin, Jewett, Freeman, Crane, Wharton, Zitkala Sa, Sui Sin Far, Harper, Dreiser and Norris
1248	Intensive scrutiny of a specific topic in psychology will be undertaken in a small group with emphasis on primary sources. This course may be taken more than once with different content.
1249	An interactive hybrid-online course, which serves to introduce topics in laboratory safety. Seminar discussions will require students to apply knowledge (based on required reading) to address a laboratory safety incident or laboratory situation connected to real world cases. Coursework will emphasize critical thinking, hazard identification, problem solving and regulatory compliance. A student presentation and/or project abour a laboratory safety topic will be due at the end of the semester. This seminar will cover a broad range of introductory laboratory safety topics such as hazard analysis and risk assessment, hazard control, hazard communication, biosafety awareness, radiation safety awareness, chemical hazards and hygiene, flammability and fire safety, electrical safety, waste handling, regulations, laboratory security and emergency planning. Current events in laboratory safety will be presented throughout the course.
1250	This capstone course is designed to give the student the opportunity to assimilate the knowledge learned both in the nursing and the liberal arts/core curriculum within the context of the role of the professional baccalaureate-prepared nurse/nurse leader. The student engages in leadership assignments that reflect application, synthesis and evaluation of concepts and nursing issues that have been studied throughout the RN to BS program. The continuation of self-care strategies learned throughout the program are highlighted for ongoing promotion in nursing practice. This course provides knowledge and skills needed for implementation of leadership and management roles within culturally diverse health care system. The nurse learns strategies to manage resources and prople to create a compassionate caring work environment. Concepts focus on leadership and management theory, communication skills, health care finance, delegation, managing changes in the health care delivery system, legal issues, organizational culture, information technology, clinical and quality outcomes measurement and performance evaluation. Prerequisites: NURS-408 and NURS-410.
1251	A study of music designed to develop the student's appreciation and knowledge of music as an expression of human culture to the Romantic Period.
1252	An interdisciplinary course designed to identify racist, heterosexist, ageist, anti-semitic, ableist, etc. assumptions in conventional scholarship; to develop an interdisciplinary critique of knowledge; to describe the development of stereotypes about disenfranchised groups throughout western culture; to recognize the contributions of women and members of other disenfranchised groups in various fields of human endeavor; to develop a holistic appreciation of the diversity of society. (Same as WSTU100)
1253	History of modern China since 1840, with particular attention given to China's response to the West, the disintegration of Imperial China, the development of nationalism, and the rise of Chinese communism.
1254	Continued study of contemporary accounting theory and the application of generally accepted accounting principles to 
1255	This course will cover selected topics at an intermediate level. Registration requires permission of the instructor. This course may be taken multiple times with different topics. Note this course does not count for the completion of the physics major. ATTR: ARTS
1256	This course treats industrialization and social change, the emergence of socialism and workers' movements, political and economic liberalism, German and Italian unification, Social Darwinism, and European imperialism.
1257	A historical treatment from the European perspective of the principal developments and crises from the end of World War II to the present.
1258	Students are acquainted with the process of actor training and character development through workshop discussion, and attendance at professional and academic productions. Laboratory sessions are devoted to the preparation of scenes exploration of the actor's body and voice, and an examination of the student's ability to feel, to communicate, and to imagine. This course is designed for students with no previous acting experience or those with some experience, but no training. A field trip to a professional production is required. Lab fee.
1259	This course extends the concepts introduced in Software Engineering I and introduces new topics important to the software engineering profession such as secure coding, ethics, intellectual property, copyright, cloud computing, and software maintenance. Students continue to work in teams to complete the software applications started in Software Engineering I. Lab fee.
1260	This course covers two areas central to the development of analytic philosophy in the 20th century: the philosophy of language and the philosophy of mind. Topics in the philosophy of language may include: truth and meaning; speech acts; reference and descriptions; names and demonstratives; propositional attitudes; metaphor; and interpretation. Topics in the philosophy of mind may include: the mind-body problem; mental causation; mental content; innateness and modularity; and
1261	An in-depth study of Chaucer's major work, The Canterbury Tales, along with selections from his other works. The literature will be discussed in the context of important issues of medieval times: the growing middle class, the position of women, the aftermath of war and plague, religious crisis and reform. All readings will be in Middle
1262	This course introduces students to English literature from Beowulf to Swift. Students will analyze texts within their historical and cultural contexts, examine the development of several literary genres, and trace the history of the English language, including Old English, Middle English, and Early Modern English periods.
1263	The advanced course in cyber security covers attack techniques and proactive ways to mitigate risks. Topics include ethical hacking, penetration testing, advanced data communications, cloud computing, and application security techniques. Course will include lectures and hands-on components.
1264	A survey of Russian history from the reign of Ivan III (1462-1505) to the 20th Century.
1265	This course provides an opportunity to explore selected areas of study not in the regular broadcast offerings. Topics vary depending on student and faculty interest. May be taken more than once with different content. A field trip may be required. Same as CREA 385.
1266	Through science and technology humans are creating a new world which will not only be decided by scientific knowledge but will depend on views about good and bad, right and wrong. This course may focus on a variety of different topics, areas, or issues, such as nanotechnology, climate change, military or reproductive technologies; but all courses will closely examine some scientific change or field and its consequences from the perspectives of philosophical
1267	This course will analyze developments in American education from the colonial period to the present. Since educational theories and systems create and are created by the social, intellectual, economic, and political milieu, educational developments will be viewed in the light of important trends in American society. Attention will be given to fundamental ideological questions including the relationship of power and participation to education and instruction in a democratic society.
1268	The course is designed to prepare and expose students to public policy making in New York State and allow them to participate in public policy formulation and execution at the state , substate and not-for-profit level. Students will serve as Public Service Interns 120 to 150 hours during the semester performing duties and responsibilites as determined by the agency supervisor in consultation with the faculty director. Students will be graded based upon the joint evaluation of agency supervisor and internship professor. Written permisssion of the internship supervisor is required.
1269	A study of the course of black history in the United States, including migration to English America, slavery, emancipation, segregation, rise of organized protest movements, and the civil rights revolution, as well as a consideration of the influence of blacks upon various phases of American political, social, economic, and intellectual development.
1270	A course similar to BIOL-010 and BIOL-020, except that the topics offered have not been approved to fulfill College Core requirements. Students earning a score of 4 or 5 on the Biology AP exam will receive credit for this course. Students may take this course more than once with different content. Does not count for College Core.
1271	This course will cover algorithm design techniques such as divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, greedy approaches, and space-time tradeoffs. Example algorithms illustrating these design techniques will be introduced and include such things as balanced search trees, heaps, graph algorithms (depth-first and breathfirst searches, minimum spanning trees and shortest paths), selection, and sorting algorithms (radix sort, heap sort, merge sort and quick sort). Asymptotic notations and techniques for analyzing the running times of these algorithms will be covered. Limitations of algorithm power will be discussed, including an
1272	This course is a study of women's various roles in literature from classical to modern times. Novels, short stories, poems, dramas, biographies and autobiographies across cultures and class emphasize the evolving image of women and the role of women as writers of literature. (Same as WSTU-
1273	The cellular basis of the humoral and cell mediated immune response will be covered with emphasis on the mechanisms of cell cooperation. Topics covered are: lymphocyte populations, the role of the machrophage, immunoglobulin synthesis and the generation of diversity, the genetics of the immune response and the role of the major histocompatibility complex, the complement system and the development of hypersensitivities.
1274	This course will use peer evaluations and the traditional writing workshop to foster student skills in writing poetry. Students are required to distribute poems they have written to the class for critique and group evaluation. Poetic theory and technique will be examined, and the works of contemporary poets will be studied. Students will be introduced to the art of writing contemporary poetry.
1275	An analysis of the development, organization and functions of American Political Parties. The course examines political parties as organizations, the party in the electorate and the party in government. Particular attention is paid to how well political parties perform the linkage role between the American people's preferences and the content of governmental policy decisions. Students should have a working knowledge of American government.
1276	This course investigates the concepts of community, social justice, change and development. Students in this class will study those ideas and implement them with a community partner. Employing Community Based Research (CBR), students will conduct research and develop a collaborative and progressive social research project.
1277	This course examines American history through a global lens. It focuses on the effect of globalization on the development of the economy, society, culture and government of the United States to 1877. Students examine migration and cultural interactions among Native Americans, Africans, Europeans and Asians; the origins of the market economy and new labor systems; and the effect of the Enlightenment and religious revivals on political and cultural development. Additional topics covered will vary with the expertise of the instructor. This course also introduces students to the discipline and methodologies of history. Students will engage with enduring questions of human concern, demonstrate competence in historical literacy and practice intercultural knowledge and respect.
1278	A qualified student may pursue a particular topic in Education by means of independent research, periodic discussion with the department member concerned, and the development of a satisfactory written report. Approval for and the student will be expected to comply with all College guidelines concerning such projects.
1279	A study of environmental public policy: the major actors, institutions, and rules of the game that shape decision making. We will also engage in a dialogue about the underlying philosophies that drive resource utilization and environmental preservation. We will primarily look at the case of the United States, but some attention will be given to the international dimensions of the subject. (Same as ENVA310).
1280	The first half of the introductory course in accounting emphasizes the role of accounting as an information and communication system necessary for economic decisions. The accounting process, systems and resulting classified financial statements are covered. Financial accounting concepts and practices relating to topics such as current and long term assets, inventories, current liabilites, equity and long term liabilities are included.
1281	This course will cover the theories explaining the function and evolution of genomes alongside handson application of the computational tools biologists use to understand them. Topics covered include DNA sequencing, genome assembly, transcriptomics, gene annotation, genome evolution, and functional genomics. Various bioinformatic tools and online databases will be used, with an emphasis on hands-on manipulation and analysis of real genomic datasets. As part of this class, students will conduct independent genomic research projects.
1282	An introduction to the processes and techniques of social research, including instruction hypothesis formation, measurement, questionare contstruction, sampling, survey ATDV 110 either before taking SOCI 304 or simultaneously with SOCI 304.
1283	This course applies social work practice knowledge, values, ethics, and skills to working with organizations and communities. Emphasis is placed on how diversity can influence work with these systems and on practice approaches and skills used to enhance people's wellbeing and ameliorate environmental conditions that
1284	This course deals with the development and implementation of organization strategy. It focuses on the perspectives, analytical techniques, and capabilities utilized by business professionals to improve an organization's probability of attaining sustainable competitive advantage and success in the long term. It is considered a capstone course, which implies that students will be asked to integrate much of what they have learned in other courses into the analytical and decision-making processes. In this course, students will be expected to integrate knowledge and skills from courses in the business core, work effectively in teams, demonstrate leadership skills, communicate effectively, engage in the analysis of complex business situations, and make enlightened decisions based upon reasoned judgments. This is a multidisciplinary course, emphasizing the development of strategies that integrate accounting, financial, economics, and marketing, and management considerations. The course will be taught by professors from a variety of disciplines, but always with an emphasis on multidisciplinary integration. This course must be taken and
1285	An introduction to the social aspects of environmental problems and solutions. It examines the ways in which social institutions and lifestyles lead to environmental deterioration. It also looks at the consequences of environmental decay for human health and well-being. It examines efforts to preserve the natural environment through the Environmental Movement, drives to save particular ecosystems, and changes in thinking about environmental issues. Same as ENVA
1286	The Siena College Chorus explores choral music of a wide variety of historical eras and cultures through discussion and performance. All are welcome; there are no prerequisites. Students may register for up to 3 credits per academic year (September thru May), for up to 12 credits in total. Up to 6 credits may count towards a CREA program of study.
1287	Interdisciplinary studies II examines issued facing human beings in today's social world from the points of view of a variety of academic disciplines. Generally, different topics are covered each time the course is offered. Open to sophomore-level students and above.
1288	A study of selected masterpieces of German, Austrian, and Swiss Literature including novels, short stories, drama, and poetry, read in English translation.
1289	This is a one semester course on selected topics in the the notions of limit, infinity, area, parallelism, pi, transcendental numbers, number systems, mensuration, polynomials, cosmology, map coloring, logic, proof, abstraction, generalization, quadrature, trisection, or algebraic structure. The history of a given idea will be traced, and relevant problems will be presented. This course is intended for students in all schools of the College. Mathematics majors may take this class for elective credit but it does not count towards the requirements for the major. Offered spring semester.
1290	Microbiology for Health Studies (3 hours lecture, 3 hours laboratory) 4 credits Designed for students seeking a basic understanding of the biology of microorganisms with an emphasis on applications to health care. Lectures cover the fundamentals of microbial morphology and physiology and the role of microorganisms in the environment and human disease. Laboratory emphasizes standard techniques of staining, culturing and identifying bacteria. Not open to biology majors. Lab Fee.
1291	This course will introduce students to sociological concepts and issues within contemporary family sociology. The intersections between the family and other social institutions will be a central component of this course. Diversity of families will be another central foundation for this course. Issues of privilege and inequality will be explored, as well as social justice as it pertains to
1292	This course is a continuation of the study of mathematical structures most frequently encountered in Computer Science. Topics covered include deterministic and non-deterministic finite automata, regular, context-free and other languages, push-down automata, grammars, Turing machines, computational complexity, and in particular the P vs. NP
1293	An interdisciplinary course integrating scientific and moral dimensions of the world. The course examines the present state of genetic knowledge, moral issues raised by present and future eugenic proposals, and the source and meaning of the ethics that ought to govern all human solutions.
1294	This course develops Maxwell's electromagnetic field equations and examines some of their physical consequences. Some of the special topics covered include: electrostatics; steady currents and static magnetic fields; dielectric and magnetic materials; time-dependent electric and magnetic fields; electromagnetic induction; the complete Maxwell theory; energy in the electromagnetic field; Poynting's theorem; electromagnetic waves; and radiation from time-dependent charge and current distributions. Three hours lecture and three hours of lab per week. .
1295	Field experience in a setting specializing in research and/ or clinical activities in professional psychology may be arranged for Juinor and Senior Psychology majors. Interns spend eight hours/week in the field for 14 weeks where they are supervised by agency personnel. Interns are also required to meet weekly with a campus supervisor and to
1296	This course is an introduction to the elementary theory of groups and rings, developed axiomatically. Other topics covered are subgroups and closets, normal subgroups, factor groups, homomorphism and isomorphism of groups and rings, fundamental theorems for groups and rings. Offered Fall
1297	A course consisting of individually planned research projects in the area of student's interest under the supervision of a member of the Psychology Department. 
1298	This course will examine the American War in Vietnam (1965-1975) through major literary works written by both American and Vietnamese authors. Emphasis is placed on situating the literature within the historical context. Same as ENGL 368.
1299	A survey of the arts of Italy and northern Europe in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, viewed in light of the humanism and naturalistic outlook of the period.
1300	This course is an introduction to logic for students of contemporary philosophy and its allied fields (mathematics, computer science, political science, social and cognitive science, etc.) It is intended for beginning students and covers: basic formal approaches to standard propositional and predicate logic, together with philosophically important extensions of standard deductive logic; basic formal approaches to inductive logic; and elementary philosophy
1301	This course will emphasize fundamentals in cyber security and risk, including threats, threat actors, likelihood, impact and controls. This course will cover technical aspects of computer security, but will cover the business side of security oi it is not exclusively for technology majors. Networking, Operating System, and Application concepts will be covered. Prereq: CSIS 110 or 114 or 180 or 200 or 201. ATTR: ARTS implementation of data structures such as records, stacks, queues, linked lists, trees and graphs. Students will continue development of programming skills using modular and
1302	This course focuses on the development of marketing strategies targeted at organizations, including businesses, institutions, not-for-profit organizations, and governmental agencies. The focus will be on identifying the unique differences between organizational and consumer buying behavior, with an assessment of the impact on strategy decisions. The course will also address principles, techniques, and strategies that are utilized by purchasing and materials management professionals in the organization procurement process.
1303	A study of the beginings of Protestant Christianity, its development in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, and the basic thought of representative twentieth century theologians such as Karl Barth, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, Rudolf Bultmann, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Paul Tillich.
1304	This course is intended to provide opportunities for concentrated study at an advanced level in areas beyond the scope of regular course offerings including topics of current concern and topics specifically identified as meeting specialized interests of students. This course is offered on an irregular basis. It may be taken more than Depending on the topic, it might also be cross-listed with other Departments and/or open to seniors in other majors. In all cases, approval of the Insturctor is required.
1305	This course will explore, at an advanced level, special topics in Environmental Studies that are not part of the regular course offerings. Topics will be announced during pre-registration in the preceding semester. This course may be taken more than once with different content.
1306	This course is divided into five modules that address the fundamentals of group theory, qualitative aspects of quantum mechanics, vibrational spectroscopy, molecular orbital theory and electronic spectroscopy. Symmetry and group theory will be applied to the interpretation of molecular orbital interactions, ligand field theory, molecular vibrations, and angular momentum. An introduction to molecular spectroscopy, including vibrational, rotational, and electronic spectroscopy, as well as NMR, Raman, and Mossbauer spectroscopy will be discussed as they pertain to symmetry operations. Molecular symmetry will also be used to interpret optical activity and dipole moments, and spectroscopic interpretation through representation of groups, reducible and irreducible representations. The Great Orthogonality theorem, SALCs, and projection operators. Both spectroscopic and computational methods of demonstration will be used throughout the course.
1307	This course will examine topics in Revolutionary Era studies not already covered in History 312. The area or theme will be studied in depth and the instructor will include experiential learning or project-based learning in the curriculum. An additional fee may be required, depending on the experiential learning opportunity. May be taken more than once with different topics. Prerequisites: Any HIST 100 level course.
1308	This course is intended to help the prospective teacher interact effectively in the social-learning environment that is established between student and teacher and among students in group and individualized settings. The focus is theoretical as well as applied. Emphasis is on establishing a foundation for making sound and informed educational decisions based on the body of knowledge that pertains to teaching and learning within the framework of human development. Differences between the middle school and high school populations will be explored. As an outcome of the course, the prospective teacher should be able to apply knowledge of the learner, the learning process, and the learning setting to create an environment that offers a diverse student population the greatest opportunity to learn. A twenty-hour field experience is required (transportation is the responsibility of each student). For students pursuing Siena's certification sequence, the field experience must be at the secondary level (grades 7-12).
1309	This course considers the practice of history outside of the formal classroom. Areas of study may include, but are not limited to, museums, libraries, archives, state and national parks, historical societies, theme parks, publishing, filmmaking, archaeology, and historic preservation. (Same as AMST-475)
1310	Continued study of financial accounting theory and practice in selected areas of accounting such as accounting for partnerships and accounting for complex corporate units and 
1311	In this course, methods to identify, analyze, and solve real-world environmental problems are introduced. Qualitative and quantitative interdisciplinary research tools are used to address a wide variety of environmental issues. Emphasis is placed on basic tools for environmental modeling, statistical analysis, scientific writing and the graphical presentation of data. Students will evaluate current environmental literature, develop practical research skills, and formulate approaches to scholarly research. Each student will complete an environmental
1312	Field work experience in Accounting/Auditing will explore career opportunities in public accounting firms, corporate and not-for-profit accounting offices and New York State agencies and local government. Students work 120 hours per semester.
1313	An introductory course in physics for students of the life sciences emphasizing kinematics, Newtonian dynamics and energy. Also includes rotational motion, fluids, heat and thermodynamics. Applications to biological systems are discussed. Three lectures and one three-hour laboratory period a week. Lab fee.
1314	A study of thermal phenomena from a macroscopic point of view, including the development and applications of the first two laws of thermodynamics, entropy, thermodynamic potentials, and equilibrium phenomena. The concept of distsribution functions is developed. This is followed by a study of classical statistical mechanics and the statistics of Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac. Three hours of lecture a week for one semester.
